2023
Annual Review
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Contents
Overview
About this report 2
2023 highlights 3
How we create value 4
Chair and CEO’s message 6
Creating value
Delivering on our strategic priorities 8
Our commitment to sustainability 18
Sustainability performance 40
Financial performance 42
Managing our risks 44
Our approach to corporate governance 50
Additional information
Five-year financial summary 54
Shareholder information 55
This is an accessible and interactive PDF
Accessibility
This PDF has been made accessible for people with
visual impairments. It meets the AA standard and has
been tagged in full, so it can be transcribed vocally by
screen readers using any computer support. We have been working to better understand
Interactivity our customers so that we can deliver a superior
This is an interactive PDF designed to enhance your
seamless experience, while supporting them
experience. Click on the links and use the home
button in the footer to navigate the report.
through uncertain times.
Acknowledgment of Country
We aim to be the trusted financial partner in the lives of all of
We respectfully acknowledge the
Traditional Owners of the Lands across our customers. In times of rising costs and interest rates, CBA
Australia and pay our respect to their
remains well positioned to continue reimagining banking and
Elders past and present. Our registered
office is located on the Lands of the to help Australia’s economy become more digital, resilient and
Gadigal Peoples.
sustainable. Our purpose is more relevant than ever, building
a brighter future for all – we are ready to support.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
ACN 123 123 124
2 3
About this report 2023
highlights
Our corporate reporting suite contains detailed information on CBA’s strategic
priorities, risk management and corporate governance frameworks, as well as our
financial, non-financial and sustainability performance. Transparent reporting
is essential in communicating to our shareholders and other key stakeholders.
We continually evolve our reporting to align with best practice, feedback from
our stakeholders, and legislation and frameworks.
Financial Non-financial
Access our full reporting suite online at commbank.com.au/investors
$10,188m $10,164m #1
Our reporting suite
Annual Report
commbank.com.au/2023annualreport Statutory NPAT Cash net profit Net Promoter Score®
after tax (NPAT) (NPS) Retail, Business
5%
Climate Report and Institutional banking
6%
commbank.com.au/2023climatereport
$27,237m
Corporate Governance Statement Group cash NPAT 35%
commbank.com.au/corporategovernance Operating income by business unit
of retail customers consider
Profit Announcement 10% CBA their main financial
institution (MFI)
commbank.com.au/results
43.5%
Pillar 3 Report
commbank.com.au/results 6% 79%
Cost-to-income ratio
Investor Discussion Pack 2.8% people engagement
commbank.com.au/results
Sustainability Appendix 12.2% 860,000+
commbank.com.au/reporting Retail Banking Services
Capital ratio shareholders,
$5,158m 78% Australian owned
CET1 (APRA, Level 2)
70 basis points Business Banking
Global principles and policies Total shareholder
$3,973m
return (TSR)
$4.50
We are signatories or members of programs that We provide transparent reporting on our progress in line with Institutional Banking 142%
10-year
align with our values and sustainability goals. legislation and seek to align to industry recognised standards. and Markets
Dividend per share,
72%
fully franked $1,031m 5-year
16%
Net-Zero Modern Slavery 1-year
Banking Alliance Act 2018 New Zealand
$1,356m
We are members of international programs of action. We document our principles in our policies,
procedures and frameworks.
Financials are presented on a continuing operations basis, except the Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio which includes discontinued
operations. Comparative information has been restated. All figures relate to the full year ended 30 June 2023 and comparisons are to the year
View our public policies at commbank.com.au/policies ended 30 June 2022, except for people engagement which is as at March 2023. For data sources, see pages 290–303 of the 2023 Annual Report.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
4 5
How we create value Value created
Shareholders
$10bn
returned to shareholders via dividends
Our value drivers
and share buy-backs during FY23
$3,532
Highly engaged and
dividend amount received by
capable team average retail shareholder
Our business What makes us unique
Talented and accountable teams See Delivering for shareholders
deliver the Bank’s strategy and on page 43.
have the greatest impact on
our customers, communities Our people
1
and shareholders.
89%
Retail banking
Strength of customer Strong customer relationships of employees are proud to work for CBA
relationships and franchise
CBA’s trusted brand attracts a leading share of 44%
Largest bank in Australia, with customers, and its distinct propositions result
strong customer relationships in a deeper customer engagement. women in Executive Manager
and engagement. and above roles
See Engaging our people and evolving
Business banking
Technology leader, our culture on pages 25–29.
history of innovation 2
Leadership position in
digital banking through Better understanding of customer needs and risk
considered investment in
These strong relationships provide the foundation for
digital infrastructure, artificial Customers and communities
understanding and meeting more of our customers’
intelligence and innovation.
needs, as well as better managing risk.
Institutional banking #1
Organic capital generation,
Net Promoter Score (NPS) Retail,
strong balance sheet and Business and Institutional banking
risk management 3
66.3
Disciplined capital management,
RepTrak reputation score
balance sheet strength and Superior customer experience
leading risk management practices ASB New Zealand
and insights See how we are supporting our customers
create flexibility for us to support and communities on pages 30–35.
customers while managing A deeper understanding of our
economic headwinds. customers and their needs Environmental and social
means we can deliver distinct
Commitment to More information on the propositions that create value $44.7bn
Bank’s financial performance for customers and builds
sustainability by business unit is available stronger customer of sustainability funding since June 2020
on pages 50–59 of the
Focused on sustainable practices, 2023 Annual Report. relationships. 4,478
policies and decisions to create
long-term value for all stakeholders. Financial Independence Hub
(participants supported, since inception)
See Our commitment to
sustainability on pages 18–39.
Our purpose Living our values of Our strategy
Building a brighter future for all Build tomorrow’s bank today for our customers
See Engaging our people and evolving our culture on pages 25–29. See Delivering on our strategic priorities on pages 8–17.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
6 7
Strong results
Our results demonstrate our
continued focus on supporting
Supporting our customers
our customers, investing in our
communities, and providing
strength and stability for the
broader economy. Our operating
in all the ways we can
performance reflected strong
volume growth and an increase in
the Group’s net interest margin.
With tighter and rapidly changing
financial conditions we have taken
a prudent approach to managing
risks including credit, interest rate,
Our strategy reflects a bolder ambition and our funding and liquidity risks.
Our conservative balance sheet is a
commitment to use the strength of CBA to support
highlight of our result and provides
flexibility to navigate uncertainty
our customers, invest in our communities and provide
and support our customers while
delivering sustainable returns. We
strength and stability for the broader economy.
declared a final dividend of $2.40
per share, fully franked, resulting
in a full year dividend of $4.50.
Outlook
We recognise that many Australians potential mistaken payments through to do the same. With 7.8 million The changes represent an evolution We welcome legislative and policy
are feeling under pressure in the flagging unrecognised account customers using our CommBank app, in the way we want to deliver outcomes initiatives that help guide industry
The Australian economy has been
current environment. As the nation’s details. We recognise that the system AI-enabled features like Bill Sense for our customers, communities, our and communities to meet Australia’s
resilient with the tailwinds of a
largest bank, we will continue to is only as safe as its weakest link, and Benefits finder are playing an people and shareholders. ambitious climate targets and
recovery in population growth,
help and support our customers. so we are planning to make the important role in giving customers encourage investment to support
In recognition of this progress, the relatively high commodity prices
This includes helping them save NameCheck technology available greater visibility and control of their Australia’s transition to a net zero
remaining operational risk capital overlay and low unemployment. However
on everyday expenses, navigate to government organisations and money to help tackle cost of living economy. We are committed to
of $500 million imposed on the Bank there are signs of downside risks
a changing economic environment other trusted partners, encouraging challenges. We recently launched a working closely with communities,
was released by APRA in September building as rising interest rates
and plan for the future. a broader national approach to fight new version of the CommBank app, businesses, industry leaders and
2022. We are focused on sustaining this have a lagged impact on mortgage
scams and fraud. app 5.0, which provides dynamic governments to encourage a holistic
For our retail and home loan progress and continuously improving customers and other cost of living
navigation, more personalisation and approach to emissions reductions.
customers, we introduced flexible and strengthening the changes made pressures become a financial strain
features to make it easier to manage Executing our strategy further integration with CommSec. to live our purpose and values, in By bringing stakeholders together, for more Australians.
It has also been built to enable us to we can share knowledge and
repayments and save on interest. particular instilling a strong culture
We continue to execute our strategy offer customers more enhancements collectively address the challenges We will continue to invest in our
We also increased the rates on that encourages the right mindsets
of building tomorrow’s bank today for at a faster pace in the future. associated with the transition to business and execute on our
a number of our savings products and and behaviours.
our customers. Our strategy reflects a a more sustainable future. strategy to deliver our purpose of
provided budgeting and spending bolder ambition and our commitment CBA’s strategic investment in business This approach continues to resonate building a brighter future for all.
tools in the CommBank app. For our to use the strength of CBA to banking, and focus on strengthening with our people, and overall Read our 2023 Climate Report.
business banking customers, we support our customers, invest in our customer relationships, has resulted in engagement remains high at 79%, On behalf of all the Board and
helped maximise cash flow with communities and provide strength growing our customer base to over one with continuing high levels of pride Ensuring good Executive Leadership Team, we
a new short notice deposit account and stability for the broader economy. million customers. We continue to work across the organisation. governance would like to thank all our people
and made it easier for them to obtain towards being a leading business bank, for their hard work and commitment
funding through digital investment With 35% of Australian consumers and are focused on delivering superior Learn more about our culture Upholding a high standard – and to you, our shareholders, for
ambitions on pages 25–26.
and process improvements. We and 25% of Australian businesses customer experiences for both our of governance is essential your ongoing support.
remain ready to help our customers naming us their main financial retail and business customers. in delivering on both our
Progressing our
with financial assistance for those institution, deep customer strategic and sustainability
Learn more about our strategic
who need it. relationships are a key differentiator. priorities on pages 8–17. sustainability agenda goals. Our approach sets
Our considered multi-decade the foundation for the way
We have also prioritised combatting investment in technology, data and We continue to embed our we conduct business and
the rise in scams and fraud, helping analytics capabilities has resulted Beyond the APRA sustainability commitments and deliver outcomes.
customers stay safe through early in high customer engagement – Prudential Inquiry priorities into the Bank’s strategy
detection and prevention. We enabling us to better understand Remedial Action Plan and risk management practices The Board and management Paul O’Malley
a to n n p o ro u t n e c c e t d c t u w st o o n m e e w rs i n fr it o ia m t ives t b h a e n i k r i n n e g e e d x s p a e n ri d e n p c ro e v . ide the best We made significant progress t s o ta c k r e e h a o te ld l e o r n s g . - T t h e i r s m y e v a a r l u w e e f o re r v o ie u w r ed a st r r e a f t o e c g u ic s e s d et o ti n n g te s s t t o in e g n C su B r A e ’ s t hey Chair
scams: NameCheck, designed to under CBA’s Australian Prudential our Environmental and Social (E&S) remain appropriate in our current
help customers avoid mistaken The Bank’s Customer Engagement Regulation Authority (APRA) policy settings and updated our context. We look for ways to
payments; and CallerCheck, which Engine, powered by artificial Prudential Inquiry Remedial E&S Framework. We also performed improve customer experiences
allows customers to verify a caller intelligence (AI), is one of the key Action Plan, focused on improving an environmental, social and and advocacy, by investing in key
and identify themselves safely tools we are using to deliver more our governance, culture and governance materiality assessment areas such as cyber security and
through the CommBank app. Since personalised and relevant experiences accountability. Importantly, we reset to identify stakeholder priorities scams and fraud.
launch, NameCheck has helped to our customers digitally, and our cultural foundations including for us to consider and support Matt Comyn
more than 11,000 customers avoid empower our customer-facing teams the Bank’s purpose and values. decision making. Chief Executive Officer
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
CHAIR AND CEO’S MESSAGE
8 9
Delivering on our
strategic priorities
Our strategy to build
tomorrow’s bank today
for our customers is
centred on improving
customers’ experience
and solving their
unmet needs.
Leadership in Reimagining Simpler, better
We continue to invest
Australia’s recovery banking foundations
in our technology and
and transition
businesses to offer Reimagining what it means to be a bank Keeping the Bank strong and safe,
and building trusted relationships to making it easier for our people to
Supporting our customers and
customers a superior,
create more value for our customers. get things done.
the nation to help build a brighter,
personalised and highly more sustainable future, together.
Reimagined products and services 12–14 See pages 16–17
relevant experience.
See pages 10–11 Global best digital experiences
and technology 15
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
10 11
Leadership Extending our retail and business
banking leadership
Combatting cybercrime,
in Australia’s Strong customer relationships form the foundation of our retail bank.
With 35% of all Australians naming CBA as their main financial institution, scams and fraud in the
our strategy is centred on deepening and strengthening customer
Australian community
relationships through superior experiences and better personalisation.
We have also applied this focus in our business bank, strengthening
There is always more to do to protect
recovery and business banking relationships and growing our business customer base
and educate our customers, given the
to over one million customers.
rising volume and fast changing nature
The Bank’s strategic investments in business banking over the past of scams and fraud. We are committed
three years have resulted in strong customer engagement, deepening to playing our part to address this
relationships and earnings growth. One in four businesses now consider national priority alongside leading
transition CBA to be their main financial institution. Our business banking approach businesses, government, and
is relationship-led with business transaction accounts and payments at the broader community. For
the centre of that relationship. From these relationships, we gain unique more information on how we are
customer insights and can build deeper customer relationships through helping protect customers, their
our product and service offerings. data and our systems, see:
With transaction banking at the core of the business banking relationship, Our strategy – pages 12–17.
continually evolving our payments and merchant acquiring offerings
Our customers – page 30–33.
remains a focus. This year we launched a range of new smart terminals –
including the Smart Mini (portable tap’n’go solution) and Smart Integrated Governance – pages 36–39.
(point-of-sale integrated solution) – with over 70,000 devices currently in
market. These new devices allow us to build bespoke industry solutions,
with a particular focus on health care and hospitality. We also released an
Supporting our customers and
end-to-end ecommerce proposition, PowerBoard, to provide merchants
with access to multiple payment methods through a simple solution that
the nation to help build a brighter,
will help them start, run and grow their business online.
more sustainable future, together. We recognise cash flow is key for our business customers, especially in the
current economic environment. The Capital Growth Account, our new short
notice deposit account, will help business customers maximise their cash
flow by allowing them to earn interest at the same time as being able to
withdraw funds, with just 48 hours or seven days’ notice.
Millions of Australians trust CBA with their savings, and we aim to be For both our retail and business customers, we are focused on fixing
their trusted financial partner. At a time when many are feeling the service issues that lead to poor customer experiences and reimagining our
strain of higher interest rates and the rising cost of living, we remain critical customer processes. We aim for each customer interaction to be
committed to supporting our customers financially impacted by the exceptional – whether it be digital, in branch, through a contact centre or
relationship manager.
current environment.
Learn more about how we are creating value for customers on pages 12–14.
We proactively contacted customers whose fixed-rate home loans
were maturing to discuss their needs and help them understand 17.1 Assisting with
million
their options. Through targeted communications we were able to nature‑based solutions
provide personalised support, flexibility and financial assistance.
customers served 1 Helping build Australia’s future economy
We also increased interest rates across a number of our savings More agribusinesses are exploring
products and helped customers better manage their finances opportunities to advance their
through tips and guidance, as well as budgeting and spending $1bn+ We remain committed to helping Australia transition to a more digital, environmental goals while improving
farm assets, productivity and
tools in the CommBank app. Benefits finder is one of a number of resilient and sustainable economy. We do this by lending to support the
profitability. This year, we supported
digital tools to help customers offset the rising cost of living. Since in savings through transformation of industries, as well as to support key sectors such as future carbon credits that will be
inception, it has connected customers to over $1 billion in benefits, Benefits finder 1 agriculture, manufacturing, transport, healthcare, retail and wholesale generated by a carbon credit project
trade. We also provide a range of innovative products, services and
rebates and concessions. In New Zealand, ASB scaled-up their use in Western Australia. The transaction
solutions that reward our customers for making more environmentally
of behavioural nudges to help customers make positive changes and supports the purchase of pastoral
$200m+ sustainable choices.
feel more in control of their finances. Over 220,000 ASB customers leases for cattle stations, to help
have taken positive actions to improve their financial wellbeing as a We are focused on supporting customers as they transition their business the properties remain productive
result of these nudges. protected for customers through models to deliver on their decarbonisation goals and net zero by 2050 while also seeking to deliver better
our scams prevention and commitments. Nature-based emissions reduction solutions are expected carbon and environmental outcomes.
CBA’s continued balance sheet strength and conservative approach detection program 1 to play an important role in Australia’s transition to a net zero economy by The Australian Carbon Credit Units
to funding means we are well placed to support our customers as 2050. Our carbon markets team enables financing and risk management will be delivered over a five-year
solutions across global carbon markets that support our customers to period, further supporting a growing
financial conditions tighten, while still delivering sustainable returns
achieve their climate goals. Australian carbon market.
to shareholders.
1 See pages 290–303 of Learn more about our commitment to support Australia’s transition to a net zero Learn more about carbon markets at
Learn more about how we are supporting our customers and communities on pages 30–35. the 2023 Annual Report economy on pages 22–23. commbank.com.au/carbonmarkets
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
12 13
Reimagined products and services
Reimagining We aim to give customers more value from their banking relationship with us.
Through personalisation and distinct propositions, we look to keep meeting
the needs of our retail and business customers as they evolve over time.
banking
CommBank app 5.0
The CommBank app is central to our customer approach. With 7.8 million users, it is the #1 banking
app in Australia – and for many customers, continues to be their preferred channel. Harnessing bank
data and insights on what customers want from a digital banking experience, app 5.0 provides dynamic
navigation, more personalisation and further integration with CommSec. It has also been built to enable
us to deliver more enhancements to customers at a faster pace in the future.
Key features
include:
Automatic login Business profile
switching
Faster experience by
securely logging in as Switch option allows
soon as the app opens. business customers
to easily toggle
Reimagining what it means to
between business
and personal accounts.
be a bank, and building trusted
Quick links
relationships to create more
Personalised navigation
tiles based on customer’s
value for our customers. New investing
in-app behaviour
functionality
(e.g. frequently visited).
Enables users to browse
and invest in Australian
shares and Exchange
A key differentiator and core strength of CBA is our deep 8.7
million App library and Traded Funds (ETFs).
customer relationships. We continually look to strengthen these
enhanced search
relationships, by reimagining banking to deliver superior and
digitally active
more personalised customer experiences. customers 1 Simplified catalogue of
app features, products
Our ambition is to deliver a superior digital experience, beyond Expanded simple
and services, as well
just digital banking – equal to or better than any other. The #1 as improved app-wide balances
Bank’s sustained investment in technology underpins our search functionality.
Ability to see current
digital leadership and supports our ambition. We continue
balance of up to three
banking app in Australia 1
to grow digital engagement with 8.7 million digitally active accounts on homepage.
customers – over a million more than two years ago – and our
digital transactions account for 75% of total transactions by #1
value. This strong engagement provides unique insights that
help us better understand our customers and how we can
consumer mobile
support them. app NPS 1
We look to build deeper, more trusted customer relationships, 1 See pages 290–303 of
better understand customer needs and risk, and deliver a the 2023 Annual Report
Learn more about the CommBank app 5.0
superior experience by advancing and uplifting our existing
infrastructure and people. at commbank.com.au/app
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
14 15
Enabling customers to achieve Global best digital experiences
their financial goals
and technology
We know our customers are looking for ways to save money Helping customers stay
and manage their finances. CBA’s Behavioural Science
safe online
Centre of Excellence specialises in analysing data, working We are using data, AI, technology and world-class engineering to enable
with research partners and developing new tools and We are continuing our investment in better personalisation and provide a differentiated customer proposition.
services to help customers achieve their financial goals.
technology to protect our customers,
Money Plan, Spend Tracker, Bill Sense and Goal Tracker in the as well as providing the tools and
CommBank app can help customers stay on top of their financial resources to empower Australians Building world-class engineering,
decisions, understand where their money is being spent, see upcoming to stay safe online.
bills and set and reach their savings goals. Data from our app shows data and AI capability
that 3.2 million customers use one or more of our money management New security features
tools in the app each month – 51% higher than the same time last
year. We are making these tools even easier for customers to find in This year we launched a new app feature, Technology plays a critical role in anticipating and solving Using AI responsibly
the new version of the app. CallerCheck, which allows customers to unmet customer needs. For more than a decade, we have been
verify whether a caller claiming to be from
We are also helping customers put money back in their pockets with driving personalisation and improving customer experiences Our focus has always been on making sure
CBA is legitimate. By triggering a security
shopping offers and cashback, and through the use of tools like Fuel and processes. we safely and responsibly scale the use
message, customers can confirm who is
of AI across CBA. In 2019 we were one
finder and Benefits finder. Building on our AI and machine learning
calling them and quickly identify themselves
of a small number of organisations that
capabilities, we are improving customer engagement and value by before sharing sensitive information. Becoming an AI-first bank
partnered with the Australian Government
increasing the level of personalisation.
We also introduced NameCheck in NetBank, Since 2016 our Customer Engagement Engine has transformed the way to help draft the Australian AI Ethics
the CommBank app and progressively to we engage with customers. With over 1,000 machine learning models and Principles, which informed our own AI
CommBiz payments. The feature uses using 157 billion data points, it helps serve our customers with next best policies and frameworks.
AI to search account details and check conversations and service across all channels – including the CommBank Our AI policy builds on CBA’s ‘Should
if the customer is paying the intended app. Our partnership with H2O.ai has further accelerated how we design, We?’ test and introduces six AI principles:
recipient, helping reduce false billing scams build, test, deploy and govern AI models across the Bank. It provides CBA Human, social & environmental wellbeing;
and mistaken payments. Since launch, with access to exceptional world-leading talent and is helping us empower Fairness; Transparency; Privacy &
NameCheck has prevented over $11 million those who are serving customers every day with better tools and capability. security; Reliability & safety; and
in mistaken payments. The NameCheck
Accountability. We spend considerable
We want to ensure every team across the bank has AI capability
capability will be offered to government
time with regulators to test how we
embedded, to help deliver more personalised experiences for our
organisations and other trusted partners
identify, assess and manage risk – AI
customers. By embedding AI across CBA, our employees will benefit from
to support a broader national approach to
being one of these risk types. Importantly,
a reduced administrative burden and our customers will benefit from
combat scams and fraud.
where we implement AI, the Bank needs
the enhanced personalisation it delivers. We are creating a world-class
to assess that the model or the automated
engineering environment with improved tools, education and innovation
Joining forces to better process is significantly better than the
opportunities. Training has been provided to more than 300 employees to
protect customers make sure we are safely and securely deploying AI across the organisation. model or the task it replaces.
This year we hired over 1,400 engineers and 219 technology graduates. We see opportunity for AI and machine
In partnership with Telstra, we have been
Creating more value by differentiating piloting Scam Indicator to help protect joint We also have Technology Hubs in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth learning to help us do better. Making
to help attract domestic talent. sure we are safely and securely deploying
CBA and Telstra customers from phone
our customer proposition AI across the organisation every day, is
scams. Using a machine-learning scams Over the last year, we have leveraged our AI capabilities to enhance
central to our technology strategy.
detection model, the tool is designed to scams and fraud detection and prevention – improving our detection
detect certain high-risk scam situations in of card-not-present fraud by 35%, which we anticipate will prevent an
In response to customers’ shifting needs and expectations, real time, enabling us to try to contact the additional $10 million of fraud losses for our customers every year.
we continue to evolve and improve our offerings – through customer or put in additional checks. Scam
personal banking, business banking and investing. Indicator is expected to be made available
to customers later this year.
We recognise the importance of providing a consistent experience for
Modernising our systems and digitising end-to-end
customers no matter which part of the Bank they are dealing with. Our
new profile switch option in the app allows small business customers
to easily toggle between their business and personal accounts. With CBA’s technology capabilities facilitate the effective delivery of our strategy
the majority of our small business customers also being personal by driving velocity, availability, efficiency and security. We are continuously
customers of CBA, profile switching will give them a much clearer improving how we work to deliver improved products and services better
view of their business banking products, while also enabling us to and faster, while being supported by modern technology and infrastructure.
provide them with a range of in-app insights specific to their business. As part of our technology simplification and to keep up with the pace of
Similarly, the integration of CommSec into the app provides investors change, we continue to upgrade, replace and modernise legacy platforms.
with a seamless investment experience, giving customers the ability Ongoing automation of our Application Programming Interfaces also drives
to manage their investments alongside their banking. efficiencies and strengthens our security environment.
We also continue to offer customers more value through strategic Above all else, the security of our systems and data is integral to delivering
relationships. Our telecommunications referral relationship with on our promises. System resilience is central to retaining our customer’s
fast-growing broadband provider More, gives customers access trust and we continue to focus on ensuring our systems operate securely
to broadband offers. and seamlessly.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
16 17
Driving operational excellence
Committing to
Building trust requires that we put our customers’ interests first,
cyber security
Simpler, better are easy to deal with and provide relevant and secure services.
Our customers’ expectations are constantly evolving. Operational excellence is
key to serving our customers well every day, and meeting their needs now and into Safeguarding our customers’
the future. It requires ongoing focus to not only get the basics right, but to ensure personal information through
we deliver a seamless experience end-to-end, by identifying and fixing complex strong cyber security has never
foundations
or time consuming processes related to our services or operations. Fixes may been more important.
include reducing rework rates, improving time-to-decisions or challenging existing
policies to simplify our processes. Australians, many of them CBA
customers, are concerned about
We know customers are impacted by downtime or security threats, both of which
the safety of their personal details
negatively impact their experience. The resilience and availability of our systems
following the recent cyber attacks
– as well as the ability to recover from any incident rapidly – is vital. While we
on large organisations. We have an
continue to enhance our resilience strategy, we also need to sustain change
obligation to keep customer and
and remain relevant for our customers.
sensitive information secure and
Simplification is centred on streamlining, standardising and digitising our most protected. We continue to educate
important processes. It incorporates a wide range of activities, including product our customers about cyber risks and
rationalisation, policy simplification, end-to-end technology simplification and are dedicated to keeping our systems
process design excellence. These activities remove complexity that makes it safe, sound and secure.
difficult for customers and our people to get things done. For example, we
Cyber security is changing and
enhanced our Know Your Customer (KYC) process, to enable better digital
involves working collaboratively and
fulfilment and remove the need to visit a branch or receive outbound calls.
innovatively to prepare for potential
Learn more about how we are providing better end-to-end experiences on page 32. attacks and combat them when
they arise. To keep up with the
advancement of cyber threats, we
consult global experts, run regular
internal exercises and participate in
industry-wide exercises, coordinating
with a number of government
and regulatory stakeholders. We also
recently provided a comprehensive
response to the Federal Government’s
2023–2030 Cyber Security Strategy
discussion paper to help Australia’s
Keeping the Bank strong and national cyber response.
During the year, we have taken
safe, and making it easier for
several actions to further improve our
cyber security capability and ability
our people to get things done.
to manage cyber security-related
Sustaining leading risk management risks. This includes expanding our
capabilities to defend against malware
and assess the security of our system
Transparent and leading risk management is about understanding different configurations, strengthening our
We manage the organisation conservatively to ensure that we are perspectives and using appropriate judgement to mitigate risk and deliver better management of system access, and
well prepared for a wide range of economic scenarios to support outcomes for shareholders and customers. Through the completion of our program enhancing the threat protection to
the Australian and New Zealand economy, and our customers of work arising from the 2018 Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) CBA’s network.
and communities. Prudential Inquiry into CBA, we have made significant progress in improving
and sustaining our governance, accountability and risk culture frameworks and
Our prudent approach to managing credit, interest rate, funding
practices. In recognition of this progress, the remaining operational risk capital
Cyber security objectives
and liquidity risks – and our continued balance sheet strength overlay of $500 million was released by APRA in September 2022. We are focused
and capital position – creates flexibility to provide support and on sustaining this progress and continuously improving on and strengthening the
manage potential economic headwinds. We remain focused changes made. Right people,
right access
on maintaining capital and pricing discipline, while looking to
CBA’s Risk Management Approach sets out the Board and Executive Leadership
reduce costs where possible and optimise growth, reinvestment Team’s expectations regarding how we identify, measure, monitor and respond Defending our systems
and returns. to our risks. Our risk behaviours in particular require us to support constructive
debate and challenge of our risks and controls, adhere to the Code of Conduct, Protecting our people and
Our efforts have been centred on uplifting our risk management
including asking ‘Should We?’, and share our learnings so that we can deliver better customers’ information
capability to ensure we are delivering the right customer customer outcomes. The Board Risk Culture Assessment allows the Board to form
experience and always asking ‘Should We?’. To deliver an even a view of the Group’s risk culture and identify desirable changes that will instil an
better end-to-end customer experience, we are focused on appropriate risk culture.
Learn more about cyber security and
simplifying our processes and safeguarding our digital systems. Learn more about our approach to managing risk on pages 44–49. data privacy on page 38.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
18 19
Our commitment
to sustainability
Our position and scale
means we have a key role
to play in creating a brighter
future for all.
As we deliver on our purpose
Environmental Social Governance
and strategy, we aim to
create long-term sustainable We aim to support Australia’s We seek to create a brighter We aim to conduct our business
climate change goals and help future for all, through the support responsibly and uphold a high
value for our people,
finance a secure, affordable we give to our people, customers standard of governance to meet
customers, communities energy transition. and communities. our obligations.
and shareholders.
See pages 22–23 See pages 24–35 See pages 36–39
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
20 21
Our approach to ESG Our material Read more on
themes Related topics Raised by Relevant SDGs our response
• Rising cost of living (including • Customers
interest rates and inflation) • Community
See pages 30–33
• Scams and fraud • CBA
Our position and scale means we Identifying our material themes
Customer • Fair treatment of customers management
have a key role to play in creating
support and • Vulnerable customers
a brighter future for all. experience
Our materiality assessment enables us to engage with • Customer experience and
We continue to embed sustainability into our strategy stakeholders and identify topics with the potential to most support
and risk management practices, and we are evolving our impact the Australian people, community and environment. It • Customer complaint process
policies, systems and processes around our sustainability also helps us better understand the Bank’s ability to influence • Inclusive and accessible
commitments and priorities. This year we reviewed our these impacts – directly or indirectly. Our process draws banking (including financial
Environmental and Social (E&S) Framework to update our on external frameworks and resources, such as the Global literacy and financial wellbeing)
position and commitments relating to financing of certain Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards
sectors after engaging with stakeholders. Board, and the International Integrated Reporting Framework.
• Employee wellbeing and • Employees
W (E e S G al ) s m o a p t e e r r f i o a r li m ty e a d s a s n e s e s n m vi e r n o t n m to e i n d t e a n l, t i s f o y c s i t a a l k a e n h d o g ld o e v r e rnance T th h e e t m he a m te e r s ia w l t e h e re m p e o s r t i e d d e n in ti f 2 ie 0 d 2 2 th . i I s n y 2 e 0 a 2 r 3 ar , e k e a y li g c n h e a d n g t e o s in mental health • Investors See pages 25–29
priorities for us to consider in how we conduct business. topics included the rising cost of living pressures; increases • Talent attraction and retention • Community
The results of this assessment will support focused decision in cybercrime, scams and fraud; and the ongoing need to Engaged and • Ways of working • CBA
making and allow us to deliver on our purpose of building provide excellent customer experiences. supported • Workplace culture management
a brighter future for all our stakeholders. It also enables us Our materiality assessment follows a multi-step process workforce • Employee development
to better understand how we can align with and positively
– including issue identification through desk research and
• Diversity, equity and inclusion
deliver on the UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs).
interviews, stakeholder identification, and topic validation
See our E&S Framework at commbank.com.au/policies and prioritisation. This year’s information sources included
engagement with key internal and external stakeholders, • Corporate governance • Employees
as well as consideration of political and regulatory
See pages 36–39
• Ethical conduct, business • Investors
developments and global research reports.
Engaging with stakeholders ethics and corporate behaviour • Community
Governance, • Accountability • Regulators
Our materiality process culture and • Risk management • Suppliers
accountability
We recognise the importance of building trusted • Regulation • CBA
relationships with stakeholders to achieve our purpose. Our Identifying ESG topics
• Legal and compliance risk management
diverse stakeholder groups provide valuable insight through
• Creating a topic list by reviewing key stakeholder
their different perspectives. CBA’s stakeholder engagement
sources.
approach ensures our engagement is conducted
• Cyber security • Customers
responsibly when we interact with customers, communities, • Identifying key stakeholders for engagement. See page 38
government, political parties, industry associations, • Understanding which topics matter most through • Data security and privacy • Investors
regulators, investors and suppliers. qualitative interviews with internal and external • Suppliers
We engage with our customers and the community stakeholders. Cyber security • Community
through feedback channels, surveys and workshops, • Analysing and shortlisting topics, using frequency and data privacy • Government
customer representative bodies, and community visits of mention in identification of topics. • CBA
and programs. This year we sought customer feedback on management
Analysing, validating and prioritising topics
the development of the refreshed CommBank app, which
helped inform a number of improvements and new features
• Validating and prioritising shortlisted topics with
– including the ability to trade shares directly through the guidance from internal subject matter experts. • Digitisation • Customers
app. We also used feedback to identify and fix customer
See pages 12–15
• Rating topics with consideration of their potential • Digital innovation • Government
service issues.
to impact on the Australian people, community and • Emerging technologies • CBA
Our dedicated Customer and Community Advocacy team environment; and whether CBA could influence the Digitisation, (such as AI, cryptocurrency management
represents the voice of the customer and community at the impact, positively or negatively. innovation and and blockchain)
Bank, helping us find and fix negative impacts and improve
emerging
our products and services. We engage with them through Disclosure and review
technology
our Community Council and regular community visits.
• Grouping similar topics into material themes and
CBA’s government, regulatory, procurement and investor sharing findings with internal teams. The material
relations teams proactively engage with their stakeholders themes guide reporting and decision making, • Climate change and transition • Investors See pages 22–23
to build constructive relationships and understand their ensuring that we address the stakeholder topics • Sustainable finance • Suppliers
issues and expectations. that matter most. • Fossil fuel financing • Government
We continue to explore ways to improve how we share • The materiality process will continue to evolve Climate • Natural capital • CBA
stakeholder insights across the Bank and demonstrate how over time as we gain a better understanding of transition management
this process informs our strategy and actions. This year, our stakeholders.
detailed materiality assessment findings were shared with Our material themes are mapped to the material risks
internal teams for consideration. on pages 46–49.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
22 23
Our climate strategy
Last year, we released our inaugural Climate Report Our own operations
Environmental reaffirming our support for Australia’s transition to net zero
emissions by 2050. We also outlined our transition roadmap We aim to reduce our
for progressively setting sector-level targets on our financed operational emissions to
emissions. This year, we have made progress against our address the environmental
transition roadmap, including setting new sector-level targets impacts of our operations.
for Australian housing and heavy industry, using scenarios
We have made significant progress
which are aligned to limiting global warming to 1.5°C.
to reduce the impacts of our
operational footprint with a 95%
Strategy
reduction in our Scope 1 and 2
emissions compared to 2014.
We aim to support Australia’s climate change goals and help finance a
We also purchased the equivalent
secure, affordable energy transition. This includes lending to sectors and
of 100% renewable electricity for
businesses that will be integral to Australia’s energy transition. To help
our Group-wide operations in 2022.
direct our lending and financing activities, we apply our E&S Framework,
This year the increase in our Scope 3
set sector-level financed emissions targets and strategies aligned to
emissions is primarily attributable to
1.5°C scenarios, and have a Sustainability Funding Target (SFT). We
increased emissions from business
want to help our customers navigate to a net zero economy by 2050
travel, as operating conditions
and build resilience. We aim to do this by developing new products and
normalised post-COVID-19; and the
services, and partnering with others.
inclusion of new Scope 3 emissions
categories, such as employees
Governance commuting to work.
We aim to incorporate leading
Providing effective governance of environmental issues enables the
sustainable design principles across
Understanding how environmental Board to monitor the Bank’s management of climate-related risks and
energy, water, indoor air quality and
opportunities for our stakeholders. The Board is responsible for the
waste in our office refurbishments.
strategic consideration of the E&S impact of the Bank’s activities, and
issues could impact our business For example, to reduce our impact
holds the CEO and Executive Leadership Team (ELT) accountable for
we use recycled water and limit
the delivery of E&S responsibilities. During the year, we updated our
and how our business activities can chemical usage at our main Sydney
E&S Framework and refined our approach to assessing certain Clients’
corporate offices.
Transition Plans. In March, we established a new transaction-level
impact the environment, helps inform
committee in our Institutional Bank which reviews certain transactions
in fossil fuel sectors.
us on how to make a positive change.
Risk
Understanding
Climate-related risks can have different impacts on our customers,
natural capital
people, communities and the Bank. Our risk management approach
Our position on climate change
seeks to ensure we understand and address the risks to our operations
and strategy. We have a range of tools and processes to help us do this,
Climate change is a collective global challenge requiring coordinated action to limit and will continue to manage and monitor these risks as they evolve. We recognise the importance of
global warming to 1.5°C. Our net zero by 2050 ambition is to transition our operational This year, we finalised the stranded asset Risk Appetite Statement taking action to maintain, enhance and
and financed emissions to align with pathways to net zero by 2050. We are progressively indicator for the agriculture portfolio and the non-retail institutional restore biodiversity. This year, we used
setting operational and sector-level financed emissions targets in line with pathways banking portfolio. the ENCORE platform to deepen our
understanding of potential nature-
that aim to limit global warming to 1.5°C. We remain committed to managing the risks
related impacts and dependencies in
and opportunities of climate change and supporting our customers. Metrics and targets
our business and corporate lending
Australia’s electricity grid remains reliant on coal-fired electricity generation. We set targets and track progress portfolio. Agriculture and mining are
our priority natural capital sectors due
Rapidly replacing this generation with renewables is one of our nation’s related to our climate strategy. We
to their high dependency and impact
greatest medium-term transition challenges and opportunities. Reducing the measure and report our financed
on natural resources.
emissions, aligned to the Partnership
emissions intensity of the electricity grid is also a key driver to lower emissions
in other sectors, including the largest sector in our portfolio – Australian for Carbon Accounting Financials Our priority remains to prepare for
Standard. Our SFT of $70 billion in increased environmental reporting.
housing. Australia’s electricity grid is key to achieving the nation’s and our own
cumulative funding by 2030 helps The barriers to reporting remain
emission reduction ambitions. us as we seek to support sustainable high due to data limitations, nascent
Our role is to support the financing of a secure, affordable energy transition. industries and asset types. As methodologies and customer
at 30 June 2023, we provided confidentiality considerations. We
Our lending portfolio will continue to be influenced by the production and
$44.7 billion in cumulative funding welcome the Australian Government’s
energy mix of Australia’s grid as it changes over time.
towards our target. Nature Positive Plan’s commitment
to establish national environmental
For more information see our
For definitions of key words and phrases used in this section, such as financed emissions, see pages 290–303 of the 2023 Annual Report. 2023 Climate Report. standards to guide decision making.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
24 25
Engaging our people
and evolving our culture
Social
Engaged and energised employees, aligned with our values,
provide superior customer experiences and help us deliver on
our purpose and strategy.
Our culture ambitions
We remain focused on instilling a strong culture and Key phases
encouraging the right mindsets and behaviours. of our approach
to organisational
We made significant progress under Our Organisational Culture Plan
culture development
CBA’s APRA Prudential Inquiry Remedial harnesses programs of work to drive
Action Plan to reset our cultural culture change, including risk culture,
foundations – renewing the Bank’s at all three levels. These include making
Phase 1:
purpose, values and risk foundations, it easier for our people to deliver the
and embedding them throughout the highest impact work for our customers, Design and
organisation. The changes represent an by supporting all teams to understand implement
evolution in the way we want to deliver the impact of their work on our
outcomes for customers, communities customers’ experience; helping people Embraced the APRA
and each other. strive for simpler, better solutions by Prudential Inquiry Report’s
continually adapting and learning; and cultural recommendations
This year, we prioritised strengthening
embedding a new way to lead. and developed an action
mindsets, behaviours, processes and
plan to build a better bank.
practices that put our customers at the Our Leadership Principles are a key
centre of everything we do. element of our culture plan, describing
both what to prioritise and what
We seek to create a brighter To create a strong culture, we is required to lead successfully at Phase 2:
recognise that change needs to
CBA. Embedded throughout the Define and embed
occur simultaneously at three levels:
future for all, through the support organisational (ways of working, organisation, the principles are Embedded and sustained
intentionally aspirational and aimed
systems and structures), team the outcomes of our action
at provoking fundamental shifts to
we give to our people, customers (practices and social norms), and plan, while accelerating
mindsets and behaviours.
individual (mindsets and behaviours). culture change.
and communities.
Phase 3 (we are here):
Evolve and mature
Continue to mature, assess
and evolve our culture to
ensure we keep pace with
CBA’s changing internal
and external context.
Our people Customers Communities
Engaged and energised employees, We prioritise serving We are committed to supporting
aligned with our values, provide our customers and are our communities, and seek
superior customer experiences and help dedicated to improving to contribute in ways that produce
us deliver on our purpose and strategy. their experience with us. positive outcomes for society.
See pages 25–29 See pages 30–33 See pages 34–35
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
26 27
Assessing our culture Our people’s experience Helping through
challenging times
Our aspirational culture is adaptive to align with CBA’s include the Organisational Culture Assessment, Board
changing internal and external context. The Board Risk Culture Assessment, targeted risk culture reviews
plays a critical role in setting the cultural tone of the and business unit self-reflections. This enables a We look to deepen our Our recognition programs With the rising cost of living,
Bank and it guides culture through the CEO and ELT. cyclical process of assessment, action planning, understanding of our people’s celebrate colleagues who are we are committed to looking
implementation and re-assessment to support engagement, wellbeing and living our values, and allow our after the financial wellbeing
Culture change initiatives are continually monitored a customer-focused culture that delivers on our energy at work to enable them people to nominate those who of our people.
u m s e in tr g ic in s s a i n g d h t f s o f c r u o s m g e ro m u p p l s o , y a e s e w su el r l v a e s y s a , u s d t i r t a a te n g d i c strategy and purpose. to deliver the greatest impact h E a x v c e e l g le o n n c e e a A b w ov a e rd a s n , d in b cl e u y d o i n n d g f a o r CBA’s Wellbeing Hub contains
whistleblower reports. Our culture assessments for our customers, communities People’s Choice Award. This year’s resources to help employees
and shareholders. People’s Choice Award ‘Backing better manage their finances,
Good Judgement’ was selected such as our workbook – Financial
Evolving our culture to deliver on our purpose and strategy Employee engagement remains
to recognise those who exemplify Wellbeing for Our People. The
strong at 79% from our most recent
our values by demonstrating the workbook provides simple steps
Your Voice survey. The results
ability and willingness to apply and tools to help build confidence
CBA’s culture is built on the foundation of our refreshed Code of Conduct, which includes our values and support a continued focus on CBA’s careful judgement and take in managing money. Monthly
‘Should We?’ test. Our Leadership Principles assist in embedding our aspirational culture. We seek to build values and purpose; diversity, equity on the right risks that prioritise webinars cover topics such as
and strengthen mindsets, behaviours, processes and practices that put our customers at the centre. and inclusion; and flexible working good customer outcomes. budgeting, saving, using employee
options as drivers of engagement
benefits, controlling debt, and
and our people’s experience.
estate planning.
Important factors in delivering CBA’s
strategic priorities included stopping We provide several employee
Purpose Building a brighter future for all least impactful work, supporting benefits which can help reduce
our people’s wellbeing at work, and expenses. For example, staff
providing new skilling opportunities. deals offering discounts on
These factors have been shared retail products and services; pay
CBA Code of Conduct and ‘Should We?’ test across the Bank to ensure ongoing advance options for employees
improvement. struggling to meet everyday
expenses; and other savings and
Values We encourage employees to have benefits. Our Financial Assistance
We care about our customers We have the courage to We are unwavering in our Culture regular, motivating and development- Solutions team can help tailor
and each other – we serve with step in, speak up and lead commitment – we do what is focused conversations with their personalised solutions for our
humility and transparency by example right and we work together to A pattern of leaders. Check-in conversations customers and employees. Our
get things done shared values, occur quarterly to regularly reflect Employee Assistance Program
beliefs and
behaviours, on performance, reset goals, and also has financial coaches to help
Build tomorrow’s bank today for our customers which shape establish meaningful development those experiencing or anticipating
and are shaped opportunities for the next quarter. financial difficulty.
Strategy Leadership in Australia’s Reimagined products Global best digital Simpler, better by various
recovery and transition and services experiences and technology foundations environmental
factors
Differentiating
Data and Banking and Risk Change and
capabilities to Engineering Leadership
analytics commercial judgement management delivery
execute strategy
Prioritising mental health and wellness
Our Leadership Principles
We are committed to creating a positive and supportive workplace
CBA’s Leadership Principles are designed to help leaders understand
what is required to lead successfully at the Bank. which helps our people be their best. This includes creating a
mentally healthy workplace where our culture is supportive for those
experiencing mental ill-health and provides our people opportunities
to thrive.
Obsess over customers Lead as an owner Be curious and humble Create exceptional teams We provide employees with tools and resources to support their physical and
mental wellbeing. This includes health, nutrition and fitness sessions, money
• Prioritise the customer • Create clarity, remove • Seek feedback, • Attract and develop
management tools, mental health guides and access to professional support.
above all else complexity and build reflect and improve great people and
We also run an annual Wellness Awareness Week to encourage positive habits.
• Relentlessly improve our alignment • Ask questions and unleash their potential
customers’ experience • Apply good judgement never stop learning • Inspire confidence, To better understand and support the mental health and wellbeing of CBA’s
• Anticipate and solve to take smart risks and • Set ambitious goals openness and trust workforce, we conducted our first Leading Mentally Healthy Workplaces
unmet customer needs focus on value and persevere • Deliver better Survey, led by the Corporate Mental Health Alliance Australia. The insights
• Seek out obstacles and outcomes, sooner from this survey will be used to inform employee programs and offerings.
find solutions and safer
We continue to improve our health and safety systems to better identify
and manage psychosocial risk, work-related factors that can impact the
psychological health and safety of employees, including how work is designed,
organised and managed.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
28 29
Affirming our Building a skilled workforce
ways of working
Our focus is to maximise the development of capability across the
organisation through a culture where people want to continually
We know how important it is for
Embedding diversity, learn and develop.
our people to maintain flexibility
equity and inclusion in where and how they work. Our approach to upskilling and reskilling focuses on the technical,
This must also be balanced with behavioural and leadership skills required to deliver on our strategy and
the important role the workplace ensure our people are ready for the future of work.
We want everyone to feel respected, safe and included at work. plays in facilitating connection, We recognise that the way people learn has changed, so we continue to
It is an important part of how we live our values and support innovation, learning, wellbeing evolve how our people grow and build new skills through a variety of digital,
each other to be our best. and career development. face-to-face, on the job and peer-to-peer learning modalities. In addition
to upskilling initiatives that build breadth and depth of skills within roles,
With a strategic focus on diversity, equity and inclusion, we are working To support our people to deliver reskilling has continued to be a focus this year – allowing our people to find
towards ensuring that employees who are at risk of exclusion feel safe and achieve the right balance of new, sustainable career paths and evolve skills in our existing workforce.
and are able to access the support they need, when they need it, harmful connection, learning and flexibility; These programs include recognised certification and building internal talent
behaviours are prevented and addressed at work and everyone feels valued we have a Group-wide approach to pipelines, largely within high demand areas such as data and analytics. Since
and has opportunities to grow. provide consistency and clarity for all inception, over half of those who have attended a program have successfully
We continue to embed Respect Lives Here, our key initiative to strengthen our people who work in our corporate secured a new role.
offices. Employees are expected to be
respect and prevent harmful behaviours at work, by educating our people
in the office for 50% of their work time.
on the impact of these behaviours and how to be an active bystander.
Quarterly Inclusion Conversations encourage senior leaders to reflect on It’s been great to work
equitable decision-making and help our people to succeed. In addition, our
six employee-led networks play a vital role in creating an inclusive culture, on many varied and
by elevating the voices of our people to ensure their experience at work
challenging projects
is heard.
Expanding our technology graduate program
while developing my
As one of the first organisations to be certified as a Family Friendly
Workplace, we are proud to be recognised for the depth and breadth of We are significantly expanding our technology graduate intake and technical skills. I have
support options we provide for families and carers. This includes a diversity have hired 219 new technology graduates in 2023 – more than 280%
been able to gain
of leave options, such as Sorry Business leave, workplace support for higher compared to our 2020 intake. 38% of these graduates are based
domestic and family violence, resources for LGBTI+ families, aged caring We’re operating in in our technology hubs outside of Sydney. The program is designed to practical experience
support, wellbeing guides for new and single parents, and guides to assist build the technical capability and core career skills for the future, with
with navigating miscarriage, stillbirth and infant loss. different sectors a focus on three key technology pathways: cyber security, data science in a supportive
and engineering.
requiring a wide variety environment, and
Our diversity goals and impact
of skills and abilities and the mentoring and
We continue to make progress on our diversity goals. We aim for 47–50%
gender equality in Executive Manager and above roles, and for our senior therefore are able to training I’m getting
leaders to match the cultural diversity of the Australian population
offer different careers is helping me grow
by 2025. We also target 3% Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander
representation in our domestic workforce, to reflect parity with the which you would not both personally and
Australian population.
normally associate professionally.”
We are proud to be included in the global 2023 Bloomberg Gender-Equality
Index (GEI), which recognises our commitment to transparency in gender with a bank.”
reporting. The GEI is our primary gender equality benchmarking source Sanjeda Raheem
to measure our performance against global best practice in five areas:
Sian Lewis Technology graduate
leadership and talent pipeline, equal pay and gender pay parity, inclusive
culture, anti-sexual harassment policies, and external brand. Group Executive, Human Resources
Women in leadership Indigenous workforce (ancestry) 60
people supported from
across the Bank to become
44% 1% data analysts through reskilling,
You x CommBank with almost 30% from our
in Executive Manager of domestic branch network
and above roles workforce
As part of our new talent attraction campaign, You x CommBank, we are
inviting successful candidates to become our partners. A career with us
47%
47–50% 3%
means being more than just an employee. We are committed to providing
opportunities for our people to grow professionally and develop their skills.
of our data analytics
2025 goal 2026 goal Find more information at commbank.com.au/careers vacancies are filled internally
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
30 31
Supporting our
customers
We prioritise serving our customers and are Commitment to inclusive banking
dedicated to improving their experience with us.
The impacts of financial exclusion can be varied and significant
for customers. As Australia’s largest bank, we look to support
Helping customers when they need it financial inclusion and deliver a positive impact.
The Indigenous Customer Support Program, established in 2021, continued
to bring efforts underway across the Bank together to support First Nations
We understand that our customers are supporting customers in vulnerable circumstances,
customers. This year we completed community visits to APY Lands (SA),
impacted by rising costs and interest rates. which guides all of our people on the roles,
Mornington Island, Palm Island (QLD), Djarindjin, Ardyaloon, Beagle Bay, and
We are committed to supporting those responsibilities, accountabilities and processes Bidyadanga (WA) to deliver remote banking support. These visits will inform
around vulnerability. The procedure helps employees
customers that need assistance and providing our future remote banking support.
understand what vulnerability is, how it may impact
a series of tools, tips and guidance to help
our customers, and how we can all help minimise the We partnered with First Nations Foundation in 2022 to run a financial
with managing finances.
harm our customers may experience. Our specialised literacy program pilot called My Money Dream. The program was available
Next Chapter (available to individuals experiencing across a selection of remote branches for First Nations customers, to
Lessons learned from the financial impacts of
domestic and family violence and financial abuse) and support positive money habits and build financial prosperity.
COVID-19 have helped us better understand our
Extra Care teams are trained to provide additional
customers, and segment and tailor our approach for We understand the importance of building strong financial awareness and
empathetic support, resources and referrals to both
different needs. This helps us identify changes that habits in children, to help them become financially resilient in the digital
internal and external experts for customers.
may signal financial distress, and assess how to best economy. Our earning-and-learning app, Kit, is being used by thousands
engage and support them. We have a number of In addition to ensuring our people understand of families in Australia. The app and prepaid card are designed with kids in
solutions to assist customers experiencing financial vulnerability and how it may prevent a customer mind, while still providing oversight for parents and carers. A recent Money
difficulty, including interest rate concessions on from receiving equitable outcomes, our processes Matters Report found families using Kit were more likely to save money,
home and personal loans, interest only payments, and procedures are designed to embed fairness for earn money on their own and apply positive spending strategies when Making banking
loan term extensions and loan combination service the customer in all decision making. We use regular purchasing an item.
options to support customers through difficult times quality assurance and controls, and additional accessible for all
and decisions. We are also using behavioural and fairness reviews to assess customer cases to make We have chosen to play a role in addressing the significant impacts of
Australians
data insights to better understand and support our sure decisions are in the customer’s best interests. financial abuse and improving outcomes for victim-survivors. Our Next
customers’ savings behaviour. For acute and sensitive cases, senior stakeholders Chapter program continues to provide ongoing and tailored support
to customers and communities impacted by financial abuse. We continue our ambition to improve
across the Bank collaborate to create personalised
We are taking steps to ensure our people provide our accessibility, helping to remove
the right care for those experiencing vulnerability. In solutions for our customers in highly vulnerable or Find out more about our Next Chapter program and progress on page 34. barriers for customers with temporary,
sensitive circumstances.
2023 we implemented a Group-wide procedure for situational or permanent disabilities.
CBA’s Accessibility and Inclusion
Plan guides how we are making our
products, technology and workplaces
accessible for all.
This year, we launched Equal Access
Toolkits into all branches to make it
easier for our customers with different
accessibility requirements to bank
with us. Each toolkit includes items
to support an array of accessibility
requirements when customers visit
us and help them complete tasks.
These include communication cards,
high contrast keyboards and pens,
headphones, and magnifying tools.
We also provided guidance and
training for branch and specialist
centre employees to respectfully
offer these options to those who
may need them.
Learn more at commbank.com.au/
accessibility
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
32 33
Prioritising our customers
Consumer NPS Educating our customers on scams and fraud
Target: #1
#1 among major banks for 8 months
With $3.1 billion stolen from Australians due to scams in 2022, as In 2022, the cost of
Key CBA Peers (major banks) reported by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, scams in Australia
the threat of cybercrime continues to increase. We recognise the totalled
0.6 on FY22
critical role we have to play in supporting and protecting customers, $3.1 billion
10 as well as leading the national conversation across the industry.
6 3.9 We have a range of technologies to keep customer information secure, but are Cybercrime directed
2 equally focused on helping customers learn how to protect themselves. The at small-to-medium
security check-up in the CommBank app walks customers through key steps to enterprises
-2 keep accounts and cards secure, from activating location-based security and
-6 setting up alerts, to applying card blocks and limits. Customers can also check 43%
and protect their credit score in-app with SavvyShield from Credit Savvy.
-10
Jun 21 Jun 22 Jun 23
Building business defence against cybercrime
Business NPS
According to the Australian Cyber Security Centre’s (ACSC) Annual Cyber
Target: #1
Threat report, the average cost of cybercrime to Australian businesses has
#1 among major banks for 17 months
Our customers’ expectations of our products and services are risen by 14% from financial year 2021 to 2022. On average, there is a cyber
Key CBA Peers (major banks)
higher than ever, and their view of a great customer experience is attack every 7 minutes in Australia, with 43% of these attacks targeting
increasingly being defined by experiences with other companies 10.7 on FY22 small-to-medium enterprises.
and industries.
10 7.5 In response, we created an online business security hub to give specialised advice to businesses
We continually seek customer feedback to help us improve customer – empowering them to keep themselves and their customers safe and secure. We are also forming
2
experiences, and identify and respond to their unmet needs. Our Net Promoter partnerships to help build small businesses’ defence against cybercrime, scams and fraud. Our
Score (NPS) is key to how we measure and understand what our customers -6 Small Business Cyber Security Guide, created with the ACSC, provides guidance on understanding
expect of us. Listening to and improving the customer experience has and combatting the latest cyber security threats. Together with Telstra, we partnered with the
-14
delivered positive movements in NPS across all of our business activities. We Council of Small Business Organisations Australia (COSBOA) to support small businesses in
are currently ranked #1 across major banks in all business units, and have held -22 completing the COSBOA Cyber Wardens pilot program. The program is based on the ACSC’s
this ranking for seven months. However, we recognise that we still have more -30 Essential Eight model, equipping Australian small businesses with the tools to safely engage with
to learn from and improve for customers. Jun 21 Jun 22 Jun 23 an increasingly digital world.
Empowering our customers Understanding how
Creating better end-to-end customer experiences through learning scams work
Education is key to minimising the number of Our podcast series, Anatomy of a
In order to deliver better customer outcomes, we need to In response to feedback about long wait times related successful scam attempts. We provide a series of Scam, uses real stories to expose
understand their full experience when interacting with us. We to business corporate cards, we enhanced CommBank awareness videos, webinars, guides and research how scammers target people – with
focus on identifying and fixing areas which are contributing app messaging capabilities, reviewed our procedures and online and in-app to help our customers identify advice from cyber security and law
to poor customer experiences, particularly related to our increased contact centre recruitment to better meet demand. the signs of and protect themselves from a scam. enforcement experts.
service, process or operations. These are identified by These actions led to a 27% reduction in Business Banking call
Learn more at commbank.com.au/safe
listening to the voice of the customer through complaints, centre wait times and 84% reduction in wait time complaints.
employee feedback and NPS, and are grounded in data to
Bankwest home lending and digital teams introduced
help track the impact of our continuous improvement. We
the ability to provide rate reviews via messaging, helping
have seen positive impacts from many of the actions we have
reduce caller wait times and improving customer retention.
already taken to fix complex or problematic areas.
By sending a message such as “please review my rate”,
For customers experiencing difficulty, we removed barriers Bankwest customers receive a reply with a new rate offer
in the hardship application process to help them access if available, and the new rate is applied almost immediately.
solutions quickly when they need it most. Customers can Since November, many customers have requested and
now apply for hardship assistance through the CommBank received a better home loan rate, with an average 87%
app or by phone, and we have reduced the complexity and customer satisfaction score for the solution.
requirements to provide excessive proof and budgeting
documents for simple requests. This change has resulted in
an increase of customers in hardship undertaking responsible
payment arrangements, with better long-term outcomes, and
a decrease in hardship complaints.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
34 35
Strengthening our
Empowering First Nations voices
communities
Supporting regional
Australia’s growth
Our Regional Movers Index continues
to show strong population movement
We are committed to supporting our communities, and seek
to Australia’s regional areas in the
to contribute in ways that produce positive outcomes for society. past year – drawn by employment
and business opportunities across a
diverse range of sectors.
CBA has supported regional
Providing support in times of need
communities and businesses for over
100 years, by providing regional and
agricultural businesses with specialist
Natural disasters have continued to severely affect our customers
expertise. This year we were proud to
and communities. Throughout the year, we provided Emergency partner with Newcastle Airport as sole
Assistance during weather-related events in many parts of Australia CBA’s Elevate status from Reconciliation Australia recognises financier for a $240 million package to
and New Zealand. our leadership role in driving reconciliation, both within CBA and support their expansion. The project
will significantly increase the airport’s
nationally. We released our 2023-2025 Elevate Reconciliation
Using the power of our Customer Engagement Engine we are able to proactively
capacity, improve connectivity and
connect with those who may be impacted by a natural disaster, with offers of support Action Plan (RAP), setting out an ambitious plan which focuses on
support future growth and opportunity
that align to their needs, such as deferring a loan or providing an emergency overdraft. improving access to our products and services, and helping remove
in the Hunter Region.
In New Zealand, ASB provided disaster relief to customers and communities following barriers to employment, business and supplier opportunities.
major flooding in Auckland. ASB also offered a one-off payment of NZ $2,000 for
customers hardest hit by the impacts of Cyclone Gabrielle, and donated NZ $2 million We are committed to supporting self-determination and we believe it is
to the New Zealand Red Cross. ASB further provided NZ $180 million in low-cost critical that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander voices inform our approaches
lending to support heavily impacted corporate, business and rural customers. and decisions. To assist us in achieving this, the Indigenous Leadership
Team (ILT) was established in 2022. The ILT is an internal group made up
Through the CommBank Staff Foundation, our employees can participate in of a diverse range of First Nations CBA employees across different roles
workplace giving, with the Bank making an additional annual $2 million donation. and business units representing the Indigenous Employee Network. The
The Foundation’s annual Community Grants program awards 200 community ILT is underpinned by strong cultural concepts of leadership and has a
organisations with a $10,000 donation. This year, the grants came after another responsibility to amplify the strengths of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
turbulent year for community organisations, with many facing rising costs while still ways of knowing and being. They act as an internal collective voice on matters
recovering from the pandemic. The grants program helps relieve these cost pressures which impact Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees, customers,
from organisations nationwide working across key areas of the community including businesses and communities aligned to and beyond our RAP commitments.
mental health, cancer research, the arts, Indigenous support and homelessness.
As the nation continues discussion about Indigenous constitutional recognition,
we maintain our long standing support of the Uluru Statement from the Heart,
including the Indigenous Voice to Parliament. In reaching our position and
Ongoing support for domestic violence and financial abuse
approach, we have sought advice from the ILT and CBA’s Indigenous Advisory
Council, and reflected on our positive experiences and improved outcomes as a
result of listening to First Nations voices. We have also supported a number of
We remain committed to helping victim-survivors The Group Customer Advocate also conducted a review into organisations working towards Indigenous constitutional recognition, including
of domestic violence and financial abuse by coercive relationship debt, a highly sensitive form of financial Uphold & Recognise, Australians for Indigenous Constitutional Recognition
continuing our support for customers, employees abuse, which often goes unrecognised by customers until and the Uluru Dialogues. We acknowledge and respect that our people and
and communities through CommBank Next Chapter. acute impacts are felt. The review produced a number of customers will have a variety of views about the Voice, and are focused on
recommendations that are being implemented throughout encouraging respectful conversations about what can be done to improve
Since inception of CommBank Next Chapter in 2020, the the Bank. These include tailored hardship support, employee economic, social and health outcomes for First Nations people.
program has supported 52,277 interactions with people and customer education, and updates to our processes.
750+
impacted by domestic and family violence and provided free
Importantly, we want to ensure customers feel safe when
confidential support and referrals to help rebuild financial
banking with us. CBA’s AI model enables us to proactively Promoting equality and inclusiveness
independence. This includes 4,478 participants supported CBA people across regional
identify instances of technology-facilitated abuse, a
by the Financial Independence Hub, delivered in partnership in Australian sport Australia to support regional
targeted form of domestic and family violence. The AI
with Good Shepherd. The Hub is delivering positive outcomes and agribusiness customers
model complements the Bank’s automatic block filter to
for participants including increased optimism for the future,
stop transaction descriptions that include threatening,
steps towards financial recovery and independence, and
harassing or abusive language. The use of AI to help us With women under-represented in organised sport in Australia, we aim to
increased financial resilience, no matter who they bank with.
address technology-facilitated abuse, demonstrates promote equality and inclusiveness for women’s sport, including football. 75+
We have aspirations to support over 10,000 people by the
how we can use innovative technology to create a safer
end of the 2024 financial year as they move towards long- CBA is proud to be working with Football Australia, who aim to make football
banking experience for all customers, especially for those in
term recovery and financial independence. We are focused the first sport to reach gender parity in community participation. As an Locations across Australia with
vulnerable circumstances. We are currently working to make
on increasing the understanding of our employees of financial Official Supporter of the FIFA Women’s World Cup 2023™ and partner of dedicated business bankers
our pre-trained model available to other financial institutions
abuse and its impacts. This year we continued to educate the CommBank Matildas, we are committed to helping players of all ages offering tailored banking
domestically and globally.
our people on how to respond to and prevent financial abuse. and abilities participate in one of the country’s favourite sports. solutions to regional businesses
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
36 37
Governing ESG
Governance Effective governance underpins our
approach in ensuring we have the right
policies, systems and processes in place
to deliver on our E&S obligations. Given
the significance of E&S issues, the
Board has oversight and responsibility
for E&S-related risks and opportunities.
The Board considers the social, ethical
and environmental impact of the
Group’s activities and approves the CBA
E&S Framework.
The ELT E&S Committee was
established to oversee detailed
implementation of our E&S work
program and provide governance of
E&S risks and opportunities.
For more information on our E&S
Framework and other policies, see
commbank.com.au/policies
Making it safe to speak up
We support our people and external partners to raise
concerns when something does not feel right.
The Bank’s SpeakUP service is available 24/7 for our people and external
partners who do not feel comfortable raising concerns through other channels,
or want to remain anonymous. Individuals who raise concerns assessed as
whistleblower disclosures receive support and protection under the Group
Whistleblower Policy and applicable Australian whistleblower laws. During the
2023 financial year, 331 reports were made to the SpeakUP program, up from
317 in 2022. Of these reports, 81 were whistleblower cases.
Learn more at commbank.com.au/policies
Building on our human rights commitments
With a continued focus on respecting human rights, we support the
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
We aim to conduct our business 190 Evolving our Code
Addressing modern slavery risk remains a critical focus for the Bank. Our
responsibly and uphold a of Conduct Annual Modern Slavery Statements outline the actions taken by the Bank to
Average monthly identify, assess and mitigate modern slavery and human trafficking risks in our
phishing sites CBA’s Code of Conduct sets out operations and supply chain. In line with the annual reporting requirement under
high standard of governance
taken down expectations for how we act, solve the Modern Slavery Act, we published our latest Modern Slavery and Human
problems and make decisions. It Trafficking Statement in December 2022.
to meet our obligations.
is regularly reviewed to ensure it
We recognise the importance of engaging with external experts to support
19 % remains current to our business
appropriate responses to human rights issues, and through our Social Impact
needs, and is aligned with customer
This is essential in delivering Program we continue to engage formal advisory bodies, including our Modern
and community expectations.
Increase in our Slavery Advisory Council and IAC.
on our strategic goals. Indigenous supplier This year, the Code was updated to
Supported by the Bank’s IAC and ILT, we launched a Human Rights of First
clarify and reinforce our responsibilities
spend year-on-year
Nations Stakeholders Grievance Process Framework. The process seeks to
in relation to the responsible use
provide an avenue for First Nations stakeholders to raise directly with us genuine
of customer information and data.
concerns regarding possible human rights impacts connected with CBA’s
The ‘Should We?’ test remains
For further details on our approach to corporate governance, see pages 66–73 of the 2023 Annual Report.
fundamental to our Code, helping us
business lending activity to Clients. Prior to the launch of the grievance process,
we received and responded to one grievance relating to the resources sector.
focus on the right outcomes when
making difficult decisions. Learn more on page 51 in our 2023 Climate Report.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
38 39
Safeguarding our information Designing products for better
customer outcomes
We know the personal information we hold makes us an attractive target for cyber security Ensuring fair and equitable outcomes for customers is a Our approach with suppliers
attacks. The increase in cyber attacks on companies in Australia and abroad has increased key priority, and informs our responsible product design,
marketing and communication approach. We also embed CBA has a complex and diverse
our focus on cyber security resilience, minimising disruptions and improving the protection
regular reviews of products, services and communications supply chain made up of over
of customer and employee information.
to understand where they may not deliver good outcomes 4,300 suppliers.
for some customers, and where we can improve.
Our policy frameworks Test, review and prevent Data privacy We recognise that diversity in our supply
The Bank’s policies and procedures set out our commitment chain drives flexibility, responsiveness and
We regularly review our data privacy to providing information and marketing materials that are clear, innovation. We seek to engage and support
Cyber security Cyber security
processes and controls. CBA’s accurate, and when targeted, relevant to the customer. We provide Indigenous-owned businesses and social
CBA’s Information Security Policy We maintain a range of internal and Information Security Identity and direct communication to customers in agreed timeframes and enterprises though our direct (first tier)
Framework comprises of a suite of external mechanisms to assess our Access Management Standard through their preferred communication methods. We will reasonably and directed (second tier) suppliers. This
policies and procedures which outline information security capability. Our outlines access requirements such honour prices advertised and comply with all regulatory requirements. year we appointed an Indigenous Supplier
how we manage cyber and information internal audit teams periodically as multi-factor authentication and Any material that does not meet these standards, is incorrect or is Relationship Manager to ensure an Indigenous
security risk; and includes clear and report to the Board, and Board Risk segregation of duties so that only expired, is revoked or rectified as soon as practicable. perspective when engaging with Indigenous
detailed cyber security policies and and Compliance Committee, on cyber relevant roles are able to access suppliers. Through our 2023-2025 RAP,
We look to meet genuine customer needs or demands when
standards. We are committed to security controls and capabilities. systems and information. CBA has we have targeted increasing our spend with
developing and distributing products, as well as ensuring alignment
complying with all relevant regulatory implemented software and controls Indigenous businesses by 10% year-on-year,
CBA’s cyber security team is focused with CBA’s business risk appetite and strategy. We are required
obligations, and aligning to industry to monitor email, USB and web traffic. this year achieving an 19% increase. In the
on maintaining our defences against by law to have Target Market Determinations which describe the
frameworks, best practice and This safeguard is known as Data Loss 2023 financial year, we also increased the
the evolving threat environment, particular cohort of customer the product is intended for – taking
standards. These include ISO27001 Prevention and plays an important number of Indigenous suppliers with whom
running regular simulations to into account their circumstances, financial literacy, potential
Information Security Management role in keeping Bank and customer we spend by 18%, including three regional
improve the Bank’s response and vulnerability or hardship and accessibility requirements. This helps
Systems, ISO27002 Code of Practice data secure. and remote suppliers.
recovery capability in case of reduce the risk of customer harm from the development and
for Information Security Controls,
significant events. When significant Training, awareness distribution of our products.
APRA Prudential Standard CPS
234 Information Security, NIST cyber security breaches occur at and oversight For more information on Target Market Determinations,
other organisations, we conduct
Cyber Security Framework, and the see commbank.com.au/TMD
internal assessments to test CBA’s All employees at CBA undertake Position on political
ACSC’s Essential Eight mitigation
controls and processes against annual mandatory privacy training.
strategies. CBA regularly reviews and donations
similar threats. As these increase and The Bank also maintains an
uplifts internal policy documents and
consequences magnify, our testing information security training and
continuously develops and maintains The Bank’s political donations
and review cycles are more frequent awareness program that involves
a compliance framework. These are
to ensure new vulnerabilities and participation from employees to policy precludes us from making
embedded in our behaviours and
risks are understood and managed reinforce the information security political donations.
the way we conduct our business,
by our controls. roles and responsibilities of our
maintaining a secure design of our
employees and contractors. This However, we pay to attend political events
systems and processes. In addition, we participate in external program includes online training and forums. This year, we spent $62,100 with
Data privacy and regulatory body reviews which completed when joining the Bank, the Australian Labor Party, $62,000 with
help us identify areas for improvement and thereafter on an annual basis. the Liberal Party of Australia, and $12,825
The Bank’s Privacy Statement sets out and benchmark ourselves against The mandatory training is based with the National Party of Australia. These
how we collect and handle personal best-in-class and industry peers. on regulatory guidance and best payments are disclosed to the Australian
information, and how individuals Following APRA’s 2022 Technology practices to ensure our people know Electoral Commission in line with State
may exercise their privacy rights. The Resilience Prudential Review, there how to prevent, detect and escalate and Federal regulation.
principles of good privacy compliance were no adverse findings specific to
cyber risks appropriately. Non-
contained in the Privacy Act 1988 cyber security for CBA. In the last
completion of mandatory training may
(Cth) are embedded in our internal year, we conducted two external
result in disciplinary action, including
Group Privacy Policy, Standard and reviews to assess CBA’s cyber program
termination. This training is further Our approach to tax
Procedures and guide how we comply against international best practice
supported through information
with privacy obligations and respond to benchmarks, ensuring its alignment Focusing on our customer outcomes
security awareness initiatives
privacy requests. with global standards. We were also CBA is one of the largest taxpayers in
including simulated exercises and assessment
one of the nine pilot entities included Australia. We recognise the important
Accordingly, we seek to be transparent intranet articles and newsletters,
in APRA’s first CPS 234 tripartite
about the types of personal which promote secure practices The Group Customer Advocate • Respecting and elevating contribution taxes make to support
assessment, where our domestic
information we collect, how we use it, across key topics such as ‘phishing’ has developed new resources the customer voice government assets and services.
and international operations were
and who we may share it with. Similarly, and ‘spear phishing’ attacks, to support product teams
we aim to keep personal information externally assessed in 2021 and 2022 password security, and secure across the Bank. These help • Asking ‘Should We?’ Our approach to managing our tax affairs is
respectively. These findings aligned
protected and destroy or de-identify information transfer and storage. instil a deeper understanding • Delivering accessible and in accordance with CBA’s values, purpose and
with our self-identified areas for
it once it is no longer needed. We also of the needs and circumstances inclusive products, services strategy. Our commitment is to comply with
improvements, and we have closed all
have processes in place to enable of the customers for each and experiences prevailing tax laws in all jurisdictions that we
findings for CBA and ASB. PT Bank
operate in, and to maintain transparent and
individuals to exercise their privacy product we design and manage.
Commonwealth is progressing efforts • Designing products with collaborative relationships with tax authorities.
rights as set out in the Privacy Act. CBA’s customer outcomes
to close out remaining findings. vulnerability in mind
See our Privacy Statement at
assessment areas include: More information is available in our Tax Transparency
• Designing safe products. Code at commbank.com.au/sustainabilityreporting
commbank.com.au/policies
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
40 41
Sustainability performance
Key sustainability metrics 1
Environmental Social – Our customers
Sustainable financing 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
Total customers #m 17.1 16.6 16.7 17.3 17.6
Sustainability funding (cumulative) $bn 44.7 30.6 – – –
ESG bond arrangement $m 8,642 13,570 7,854 9,516 3,251
30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
Operational greenhouse gas emissions tCO -e 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 Digitally active customers #m 8.7 8.0 7.6 7.4 7.0
2
– CommBank app customers 7.8 6.9 6.4 6.1 5.6
Group
Market-based reporting 68,600 35,745 32,955 – – Customer complaints 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020
– Scope 1 emissions 7,891 6,667 8,768 – –
– Scope 2 emissions 12 0 1,812 – – Received # 921,855 984,493 1,211,808 1,182,699
– Selected Scope 3 emissions 60,697 29,078 22,375 – – – Resolved within five days % 93 94 96 96
Location-based reporting 158,835 137,481 152,109 174,413 185,960 Escalated to an external dispute resolution (EDR) scheme # 6,871 5,384 5,419 6,455
– Scope 1 emissions 7,891 6,667 8,768 12,757 7,624 – Privacy complaints # 98 61 123 –
– Scope 2 emissions 74,577 83,249 95,762 103,818 78,756
Social – Our communities
– Selected Scope 3 emissions 76,367 47,565 47,579 57,838 99,580
30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
Renewable electricity procurement (Australia) % 100 100 100 100 33 Community investment $m
Total community investment 264.0 239.0 247.4 250.5 204.3
Water, waste and paper – Australia 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019 Our commitment to end financial abuse #
Financial Independence Hub (participants supported) 1,598 1,440 1,440 – –
Total waste 781 638 1,192 2,153 2,898
Next Chapter and Community Wellbeing
Water kilolitres 152,791 105,172 129,494 177,047 216,102
(customer interactions) 20,560 17,107 – – –
Office paper usage (retail and commercial operations) tonnes 284 293 343 483 570
Indigenous community support
Indigenous cultural development (training completion rate) % 44.2 62.3 18.7 8.4 –
Social – Our people
Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (calls received) # 198,504 184,927 181,460 206,436 202,444
Total Australian Indigenous supplier spend $’000 9,078 7,028 6,093 4,395 2,959
Employees 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
Total full-time equivalent (FTE) # 49,454 48,906 45,833 43,585 45,165 Governance
Graduates 343 241 191 153 183
Headcount # 53,754 53,056 49,922 48,167 50,482 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
Employee turnover – voluntary % 11.2 14.8 11.0 10.1 11.3 Female Directors on Board % 50 45 40 56 50
Safety and wellbeing Substantiated misconduct cases 1,122 1,071 1,825 1,851 1,869
Lost time injury frequency rate rate 0.42 0.51 0.72 1.12 1.59 – Misconduct cases resulting in termination 119 76 105 136 187
SpeakUP Program cases 331 317 335 284 311
People engagement – Whistleblower cases 81 96 123 103 30
and flexible working % Mar 2023 Sep 2022 Mar 2022 Sep 2021 Mar 2021 Sep 2020 Apr 2020
People engagement index – CBA 79 81 80 80 78 80 81
Employees working flexibly – 84.9 – 84.9 – 81.1 –
Employees with caring responsibilities – 59.4 – 56.6 – 54.0 –
Gender diversity % 30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 30 Jun 2021 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
Women in workforce 54.4 55.2 56.1 56.9 57.2 Limited assurance report
Women in Executive Manager and above roles 44.0 43.1 41.7 41.2 39.1 PwC has provided limited assurance on these metrics for the year ended 30 June 2023, except for: fuel consumption breakdowns;
FTE geographical breakdowns; women in Senior Leadership (Group Executives); total customers and Bankwest and ASB customer breakdowns;
Women in Senior Leadership (Group Executives) 41.7 41.7 27.3 33.3 30.0 and Financial Independence Hub (participants supported) metrics.
A more complete set of metrics is available for download at commbank.com.au/sustainabilityreporting
The PwC Limited Assurance Report is provided on pages 47–49 of the 2023 Annual Report.
1 For all of CBA’s sustainability metrics, together with information on sources, methodologies and definitions, see pages 42-47 and 290-303 of the 2023 Annual Report.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
42 43
Financial Delivering for shareholders
performance We seek to deliver sustainable dividends for our shareholders. We know that many Australians rely
on the dividends and related franking credits that they receive to support their income. By focusing
on our operating performance and capital generation through different economic environments,
we can achieve sustainable dividends over the long-term. We support the Australian economy
by providing sustainable returns to our shareholders as well as indirectly to more than 12 million
Australians through their superannuation.
Our results for the 2023 financial year reflect our continued focus
860,000+ Dividends
on customers, disciplined operational and strategic execution,
shareholders hold CBA The final dividend of $2.40 per share reflects the Bank’s strong capital position.
strengthened balance sheet and improved financial outcomes. 1. shares directly, millions more Our aim is to deliver sector leading returns and a sustainable dividend. To deliver
hold CBA shares through sustainable dividends we seek to:
1 All information in this section is presented on a continuing operations basis, unless stated otherwise. Comparative information has been restated. their superannuation • Pay cash dividends at sustainable levels;
For further details refer to Note 1.1 in the 2023 Annual Report on pages 127–128.
• Target a full-year payout ratio of 70-80% of cash NPAT; and
Net profit after tax Dividend 78% • Maximise the use of our franking account by paying fully franked dividends.
Australian ownership The final dividend payout ratio was 74% of the Bank’s cash earnings for the full
$10,188m $10,164m $4.50 financial year. Including the interim dividend of $2.10 per share, the full year
dividend was $4.50 per share, fully franked.
Statutory NPAT Cash NPAT Per share, fully franked 52%
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) continues to be offered to shareholders.
5% on FY22 6% on FY22 17% on FY22
direct ownership No discount will be applied to shares allocated under the plan for the final dividend.
Net profit after tax (NPAT) was supported by strong operational The full year dividend was supported by the Group’s continued by retail shareholders The DRP is anticipated to be satisfied in full by an on-market purchase of shares.
performance and volume growth in core businesses, partly offset capital and balance sheet strength. The final dividend was
by the impact of inflationary increases in our operating expenses $2.40 per share, fully franked. The interim dividend was
and a higher loan impairment expense. $2.10 per share, fully franked. $10bn
Dividend per share (cents)
returned to shareholders via
Volume growth in core business 2 Net interest margin (NIM) dividends and buy-backs 420 420 429 431 431 450
401
385
350
Home lending 2.07% $3,532 230 231 231 298 240
+$26.2bn 1.0x system 218 222 222 210
17bpts on FY22 dividend amount received 98 200
Household deposits
Group NIM increased due to the rising interest rate by the average retail
+$18.3bn 0.7x system
environment, partly offset by the intensifying competition shareholder
Business lending for home loans. 183 198 198 199 200 200 200 150 175 210
+$14.5bn 1.4x system
FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23
Interim Final
2 As reported in RBA Lending and Credit Aggregates (Home Lending
and Business Lending) and APRA Monthly ADI Statistics (Household
Deposits). CBA Business Lending multiple estimate is based on
Business Banking growth rate (excluding Institutional Banking and
Markets) over published APRA Total Business Lending Data (excluding
Total shareholder return (TSR) Return on equity (ROE) Earnings per share (EPS)
estimated Institutional Lending balances).
(%) Cash, continuing operations (%) Cash, continuing operations (cents)
Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio Loan impairment and credit provisions 142
14.0
12.7 557.1 601.5
12.2% $1,108m 1.64% 11.5
488.5
72
APRA (Level 2) $1,465m on FY22 Provision coverage ratio 4 50
70bpts on FY22 Loan impairment expense increased reflecting ongoing 16 11 10
inflationary pressures, rising interest rates and a decline
The Group returned $10 billion to shareholders via dividends
in housing prices. 1yr 5yr 10yr
and buy-backs and remains in a strong capital position and
well in excess of the minimum regulatory requirements. With We have maintained a strong provision coverage ratio of 1.64% CBA Peer average (ex. CBA) FY21 FY22 FY23 FY21 FY22 FY23
the previously announced $3 billion on-market share buy-back reflecting our cautious approach to managing risks as financial
completed during the year, the Group has announced an intention conditions continue to tighten.
to conduct a further $1 billion on-market share buy-back 3 .
4 Total provisions as a percentage of credit risk weighted assets. TSR combines both share price ROE measures the Bank’s profitability. EPS measures the Bank’s earnings
3 The timing and actual number of shares purchased under the buy-back More information on the Bank’s financial performance is available appreciation and dividends It represents the net profit generated growth. It is calculated by dividing
will depend on market conditions, available trading windows and other on pages 50–59 of the 2023 Annual Report. paid. It shows the total return as a percentage of the equity net profit after tax by the number
considerations. CBA reserves the right to vary, suspend or terminate to shareholders over time. shareholders have invested. of shares on issue.
the buy-back at any time.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
44 45
Managing our risks Our risk management process
Our Risk Management Framework (RMF) outlines the Bank’s key risk processes. The Board approved
Risk Appetite Statement (RAS) sets the risk limits the Bank operates within to deliver our strategy.
The RMF includes a number of risk types (Strategic, Financial and Non-financial), each with their own
specific frameworks to identify, assess, govern and manage their unique risks. Our material risks are
CBA’s embedded risk framework, together
those the Bank is placing extra focus on mitigating, due to their potential to materially impact the
Bank, our customers, shareholders and the community, now or in the future.
with a stronger culture, empowers our people
F or more detailed information on the Group RMF and risk types, see pages 204–245 of the 2023 Annual Report.
to confidently manage risks and opportunities.
Group strategy and business plans
The Bank’s operating environment is complex Escalating scams, fraud and cybercrime
and dynamic. This introduces new risks
and opportunities, and affects our current Australians lost a record $3.1 billion to scams in Material risks
2022, as reported by the ACCC. Scams are becoming
risk priorities. The Group Risk Management Risk Appetite Statement Identify and assess risks
more sophisticated, resulting in millions of people
Framework enables the Board, Executive
experiencing a range of financial and non-financial Financial risk
Leadership Team (ELT) and our people to The Board approved RAS is set The Bank uses multiple techniques
harms. Current geopolitical tensions also elevate
at a level that the Board expects to identify and measure the risks it
make informed risk decisions to support cyber security concerns. Cyber attacks on Australian Cyber security
management to operate within, to is exposed to such as:
the delivery of our strategy. companies are increasing in frequency and scale as
achieve desired business outcomes:
cyber criminals use more advanced techniques. The • Stress and scenario analysis Scams and fraud
Key considerations for risk management Bank provides educational tools and resources to help • Preserving capital adequacy • Risk and Control
this year: customers stay safe, and continues to invest in the • Maintaining liquidity Self-Assessments Environmental
latest technological capabilities. We are focused on • Achieving targeted • Emerging risk assessment and social
Macroeconomic pressures and rising initiatives to detect, prevent and recover losses from performance • Systems and models
cost of living scams and fraud on our customers. • Protecting our to quantify risks and Capability and
franchise value identify risk exceptions culture
The Bank’s financial performance is closely linked to Environmental expectations Risk
local and global economic performance. Economic Privacy and data
management
growth in Australia and New Zealand is slowing as Regulatory and societal pressures continue for management
the impact of higher interest rates takes effect and organisations to develop robust strategies and process
consumer spending softens. Many customers are to accelerate progress associated with the transition Artificial
under financial strain due to higher loan repayments, to net zero. We have a role to play in lending to support intelligence
rising costs of electricity, and other household the transition, and helping our customers to transition Manage and Govern and
expenses. In addition, the majority of fixed-rate home and build resilience through our products and services. monitor Financial crime
control risks
loans will transition to variable rates by the end of Our approach to climate change is detailed in our 2023 compliance
2024, which will further impact some households and Climate Report. The Board and
We implement measures
their ability to meet their financial commitments. The to manage and control risks its committees: Investment allocation
Bank seeks to carefully manage credit risk, while also Competition intensity within appetite, such as: • Oversee the Group’s and delivery
providing support to households and businesses who
system of internal controls
are financially impacted by economic conditions. Competition continues to intensify from both existing • Detective and preventative and compliance Business disruption
controls
and new competitors, including non-traditional
• Review regular reports on the
Global banking instability competitors. Digital disruption in payments and banking • Limits, delegated authorities and measurement of risk, and the Regulatory compliance
service offerings, as well as increasing customer review and approval processes
adequacy and effectiveness of
The recent bank failures in the United States and expectations for integrated and personalised digital • P olicies and procedures the Group’s risk management
Europe highlighted the importance of maintaining bank experiences, requires us to continue innovating to • Issue and incident management and internal control systems For more detailed
stability for customer confidence. A global banking deliver superior customer experiences. information on material
risks see pages 46–49.
crisis could potentially reduce the availability of credit
to banks globally and increase the cost of funding. Capability and culture
Risk types
Australian banks have benefited from conservative
regulatory settings and vigilant oversight by APRA. The progression of new technologies such as
Our banking system capital requirements are well AI, changing customer expectations and rapidly
Strategic Financial Non‑financial
above international requirements, with strong liquidity evolving risks such as cybercrime, requires leaders,
rules. Our balance sheet resilience and prudent capital employees and partners to have new and different The risk of value destruction or less than Risks typically arising Risks arising from inadequate or
and liquidity management, informed by stress testing, skill sets, particularly in engineering, technology, planned value creation, due to changes from financial transactions failed internal processes, people or
enable us to continue to support our customers and the environmental, data and analytics. In recent years, in the internal or external operating – credit, market and systems, including failure to act in
Australian economy. we have transformed our culture to take measured environment. liquidity risks. accordance with laws and regulations.
risks we understand and can manage, ask ‘Should We?’
when making decisions, and encourage challenge of
Emerging Risks, that are driven by changes in the external operating environment with potential to materially
the status quo to ensure that we prioritise positive
impact our risk profile in the medium to longer term (>12 months).
outcomes for our customers.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
46 47
Material risks
The Board and management are placing extra focus on mitigating a number of our material
strategic, financial and non-financial risk types, due to their potential to have a material
impact to the Bank, our customers, shareholders and the community, now or in the future.
Risk description Key actions Risk description Key actions
Financial risk Macroeconomic pressures and • We ensure that the Bank’s balance sheet settings remain Environmental More frequent and severe weather • The Board and ELT oversee the strategic approach
the rising cost of living negatively conservative, with a high proportion of funding from deposits and social events and longer-term shifts in to addressing environmental & social (E&S) risks and
Risk type: impact financial risk. The expected and excess liquidity. We perform stress tests to ensure we climate patterns could result in opportunities. We continue to enhance tools and
Financial slowdown in economic growth are well prepared for a range of economic scenarios. Risk type: the Bank’s assets, including those approaches to manage E&S risk exposures across our
could lead to market volatility, • Credit settings and pricing are routinely assessed in light Strategic held as collateral, being impaired. lending and supplier processes.
Material themes: increased unemployment and of changing risks. Our loan loss provisions are carefully Assets in certain industries could • Our internal climate scenario analysis team continues
Customer support an increase in the number managed to ensure that these provisions are appropriate. Material themes: also lose value from not aligning with to develop methodologies to assess climate-related risk
and experience of borrowers’ unable to meet Climate transition the transition to new technologies, exposures across key portfolios, and the identification and
their financial commitments Learn more on how we are supporting customers on pages 30–33. regulations or consumer trends. Our assessment of E&S risks is performed through formal Risk
with the Bank. Learn more about our financial risk management on pages 204–245 Customer support reputation could also be impacted by and Control Self-Assessments across the Bank.
of the 2023 Annual Report and experience inadequate environmental and social
commitments, including financing L earn more about our sustainability initiatives on pages 22–35,
and our climate risk management on pages 36–51 of the
or engaging with organisations
2023 Climate Report.
Cyber security Cyber attacks are expected • We invest in the latest technology and capabilities to defend with poor climate, nature, or social
to escalate due to more our systems against cyber attacks. practices (such as those who engage
Risk type: well-organised and resourced • We are strengthening system-level resilience through in modern slavery).
Non-financial cyber criminals. A cyber attack collaboration with industry bodies and the Government’s
on the Bank could significantly newly established Office of the National Cyber Director.
Material themes: disrupt customer banking services, Capability We require people with the • A strategic workforce planning process informs our
• By running regular simulations, we can improve the Bank’s
compromise customer data privacy, and culture right skills and values to deliver required capability needs and with our targeted
Cyber security response and recovery capability during crisis events.
and destabilise financial systems. exceptional customer experiences development programs, we aim to build a workforce
and data privacy
L earn more about our approach to cyber security on pages 17 and 38. Risk type: and effectively execute on our for the future. We also continue to leverage strategic
strategy. Competition for these partnerships, such as our partnership with H2O.ai,
Strategic
skills remains high as they are to boost our capabilities.
Material themes: sought after in various industries, • As part of our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy,
Scams and The acceleration of new • Initiatives across the Bank are focused on enhancing our
fraud technologies in recent years has ability to detect, prevent and recover losses from scams Engaged and locally and globally. we set goals to advance gender and cultural
supported workforce representation across leadership roles, and to achieve
allowed for more innovation and and fraud on CBA customers. Examples of key initiatives
3% First Nations representation in our domestic
Risk type: digitisation, but has also been and features include CallerCheck, NameCheck, and our Governance, culture
workforce, to reflect parity with the Australian population.
leveraged by criminals to perpetrate partnership with Telstra to help protect customers from and accountability
Non-financial
increasingly sophisticated scams phone scams. • Initiatives are in place to further embed our culture of
Material themes: and fraud against customers. • Our CommBank Safe webpage provides education and using good judgement and ensuring the voice of the
customer remains strong.
awareness tools to help customers protect themselves
Customer support
and experience from scams and fraud. L earn more about capability and culture on pages 25–29.
• We have prevented and/or recovered over $200 million
for our customers this financial year through our scams
and fraud program. Privacy We are conscious of the trust our • Through the Bank’s privacy risk management framework
L earn more about how we are helping customers protect themselves and data customers place in us to collect, we continue to improve privacy processes and capability
on page 33. management process, use, retain and dispose across the Bank to ensure compliance in all jurisdictions
of their personal data in a manner where we operate.
Risk type: consistent with our obligations. • Through our data management program, we are
Quality data is critical in enabling simplifying, enhancing and embedding data management
Non-financial
us to support our customers’ processes and tools across the Bank.
needs and make business
Material themes:
decisions. • We have policies and standards to manage customer
Cyber security records and the safeguarding of customers’ personal
and data privacy We anticipate that reforms information.
following recent corporate
Customer support cyber attacks will increase the L earn more about our approach to data privacy on page 38.
and experience
expectations on our privacy and
data management.
F or more detailed information on material themes please see pages 20–21.
F or more detailed information on all of the Bank’s material risks, refer to pages 204–245 of the 2023 Annual Report.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
MANAGING OUR RISKS
48 49
Material risks continued
Risk description Key actions Risk description Key actions
Artificial CBA is taking a leadership role • We continue to mature our suite of risk policies, procedures, Investment The Bank continues to invest • The Group Portfolio Management Office supports the Board
intelligence in the use of responsible AI to tools and reporting to ensure the development and use of AI allocation and to reimagine our products and and ELT with the governance of our investment portfolio
efficiently solve problems, better is appropriately governed. delivery services, and deliver global to enable strategic alignment, prioritisation of investment
Risk type: anticipate customer expectations, • When AI is used in our operations, all existing risk best digital experiences for our decisions and capacity planning of initiatives.
Non-financial and deliver more timely and management practices for technology-enabled business Risk type: customers. Ineffective change and • The Group Delivery Framework defines how change
personalised customer experiences. processes continue to apply. delivery practices can result in should be delivered and is supported by tools to facilitate
Strategic
Material themes: Recent advances in AI could enable • CBA has been appointed to the National AI Centre’s inefficient allocation of capital and aggregated project and program reporting.
significant enhancements to resources; missed opportunities;
Digitisation, innovation Responsible AI think tank, which brings together experts, Material themes: • We are improving the way we work across the Bank by
customer experience and process not achieving expected synergies
and emerging regulatory bodies, training organisations, and practitioners Customer support introducing a new approach to planning and prioritisation,
simplification, but we are mindful of from partnerships or acquisitions;
technology to focus on responsible AI solutions for Australia. and experience to deliver outcomes sooner and with better managed risk.
the need to appropriately manage or not meeting customer
Customer support potential risks. L earn more about our approach to AI on page 15. Digitisation, innovation expectations which are increasingly • Prior to acquisition, targets are reviewed for strategic
and experience and emerging defined by their experience with alignment and due diligence is performed before execution.
technology other industries and companies. x15ventures provides a vehicle to build, buy and invest in
emerging digital businesses for the benefit of the Group and
its customers.
Financial crime Banks have a critical role in • The Bank continues to address the AML/CTF failings that
compliance protecting our customers, the resulted in AUSTRAC commencing enforcement action in
community, and the integrity of 2017. The Bank has invested, and continues to invest in risk Business The Bank operates across a range • We monitor the health of systems and perform security risk
Risk type: the financial system from financial assessment tools, data and processes to better understand disruption of locations, supported by a reviews, threat monitoring, and business continuity planning
crimes. The Bank is required to and detect financial crime risks. complex technology infrastructure. for disruptions to critical systems and business processes.
Non-financial
comply with legislation targeting • We work closely with AUSTRAC and international Risk type: Disruptions to our operations can • Supplier governance mechanisms enable management to
Material themes: financial crime activities globally, regulators, law enforcement bodies and the Fintel Alliance Non-financial occur from both technological identify and manage the risk of third party disruptions.
Governance, culture including: Sanctions, Anti-Money to detect and deter financial crimes. failures and non-technological • The Bank’s crisis management framework and crisis
Laundering and Counter Terrorism causes such as supply chain
and accountability • We have initiatives to build capability on the front lines Material themes: response teams provide the structure to ensure a
Financing (AML/CTF), Anti-Bribery disruptions, vendor failures, skills
to help in identifying criminal activity. Customer support coordinated response to disruption incidents.
Customer support & Corruption (AB&C), and Anti-Tax shortages, weather events, and
and experience Evasion Facilitation. and experience cyber attacks. These disruptions • We are assessing and revising processes to ensure
Governance, culture can materially impact customers, compliance with the new APRA Prudential Standard
Cyber security
and accountability damage our reputation, and CPS 230 Operational Risk Management (effective
and data privacy
result in financial losses and 1 July 2025) which will include updated requirements
regulatory penalties. for Operational Risk, Business Continuity and Service
Provider Management.
Regulatory The Bank is required to comply • Our regulatory engagement standard drives
compliance with the increasing volume, engagement with regulators in an open, honest and
complexity and global reach of transparent manner.
Risk type: laws, regulations, rules, licence • The regulatory change team works closely with the
Non-financial conditions, industry standards business to assess regulatory change impacts and
and/or codes, and statements of embed requirements into systems and processes.
regulatory policy. Failure to comply
Material themes: • Mandatory online compliance training takes place
can result in severe penalties and
Governance, culture for all employees to ensure awareness of key
adversely impact the Bank’s results
and accountability regulatory obligations.
and reputation.
• Regulatory requirements are linked to compliance
arrangements and key controls to facilitate
assurance testing.
F or more detailed information on material themes please see pages 20–21.
F or more detailed information on all of the Bank’s material risks, refer to pages 204–245 of the 2023 Annual Report.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
MANAGING OUR RISKS
50 51
Our approach to
corporate governance
Introduction from the Chair
ensuring fairness and transparency The Board sets both the strategic Governance and culture Board effectiveness
in the support we provide, delivering objectives and risk appetite of the
seamless end-to-end experiences, Bank. As part of our annual Risk The Board plays a critical role in setting I am committed to ensuring the Board
and continuing to offer relevant Management Declaration to APRA, the cultural tone of the Bank and is continues to operate effectively. It
and secure services that meet the Board performs a rigorous supportive of management’s focus is important for directors to spend
customer needs. assessment of the maturity of on encouraging the right mindsets the right amount of time on the right
each key risk type of the Bank and and behaviours. We are particularly issues. When setting the forward
As cyber threats continue to escalate,
ensures the Risk Management focused on ensuring progress made planners, we keep all strategically
the Board considered CBA’s cyber risk
Framework is appropriate for our under CBA’s Remedial Action Plan is significant matters which could impact
management approach and focused
external context, business plan and sustained, while remaining adaptive the Group’s strategy – such as digital
on building strong cyber resilience
strategic priorities. We take this to the Bank’s changing internal and transformation, environmental and
across the organisation. This
declaration seriously as it provides external context. social issues, and global competition
included having two external reviews
the Board with time to reflect on – at the Board level. Committees
on the Bank’s cyber security and CBA’s framework assurances and CBA has a highly regarded continue to support the Board by
participating in the 2022 Technology make any required enquiries so that management team that has delivered undertaking work to facilitate sound
Resilience Prudential Review, where we are confident the Framework consistently strong operational decision making, which creates time
there were no adverse findings is effective and appropriate for performance, and significant cultural for the Board to focus on long-term
specific to cyber security for CBA. the Group. change. We also have a highly engaged issues and constructively challenge
We recognise the critical importance and diverse workforce who we need management where appropriate.
of management accountabilities for More information on CBA’s to support and develop. We continue
responsible data management and approach to managing risk is to monitor initiatives to further embed I am also focused on ensuring that all
on pages 44–49.
It was a privilege to have become Chair of CBA information security. We will continue inclusion, equity and diversity across Directors have significant experience
to consult with our regulators to Importantly, in order to execute the organisation. The Board is focused across multiple areas of the Board Skills
last August. My focus over the past year has keep abreast of expectations and our strategy and deliver for both on ensuring we continue to attract Matrix, and contribute to all elements
been to build on the Bank’s strong foundations, upcoming standards. We also our customers and shareholders, and retain our talent – both at the of strategic and risk oversight. As we
continue to oversee processes we need to maintain disciplined executive level and broader workforce look forward, we will continue to ensure
helping steer the organisation through its next implemented to reduce customer capital allocation and balance – ensuring the depth of skills reflect the Board has the best mix of skills and
strategic phase. susceptibility to scams and fraud. sheet resilience. Managing the what is needed to execute our strategy. experiences to provide the long-term
organisation conservatively focus required on banking, technology
We have been focused on providing ensures the Bank is prepared for Equally, we are focused on ensuring and customer experience.
more personalised digital experiences a wide range of economic scenarios our people remain accountable
As a key contributor to the interest rates. The role of the Board for our customers for over a decade. and market conditions. Our cautious for their actions and outcomes D co e m ta p il o e s d it i i n o f n o a rm nd a t r i e o n n e a w b a o l u is t B on o a p r a d g e 72
Australian economy, CBA plays is to oversee management and test AI has been a key enabler in executing approach to balance sheet settings – effectively rewarding positive of the 2023 Annual Report.
a meaningful role in the lives the appropriateness of the Bank’s our strategy. The Board is committed allows an orderly execution of outcomes and enforcing consequences
of its customers and in the s It t r is a t c e r g it i i c c a p l r t io h r a it t i e th s e o B ve o r a t r h d e l i l s o t n e g n s t e to rm a . t e o x i e s n ti s n u g r i a n n g d i t n i e s w u s g e o d v e s r a n f a e n ly c u e n . T d h er is o en u v r i f r u o n n d m in e g n t p s l , a w ns h i i l n e u m n a c i e n r t t a a in in in g f B o a r n p k o ’s o p r e o r u f t o c r o m m a e n s c . e A a s n p d a r r i t s k o f r e th vi e e w, Closing
country’s national interest. broad range of stakeholders to inform year, the Board reviewed CBA’s new flexibility. Delivering stable earnings each February and June, the People I would like to thank all who have
We are relied upon to support our decisions. This year the Board AI Policy with a focus on how to contributes to the strength of & Remuneration Committee members contributed to the Bank’s success
economic growth and to provide spent considerable time on customer safely scale the use of AI. Australia’s banking system, helping meet concurrently with the Risk & – including my fellow Directors for
support to our customers and experience, cyber and information There continues to be considerable to provide confidence and stability Compliance, Audit, and Nominations their commitment to ensuring the
communities – particularly in security, technology investment, interest from stakeholders on our for businesses and consumers. Committee members. These meetings Bank is well positioned for the future,
the current environment. c
sh
lim
ee
a
t
t
r
e
e
c
s
h
ili
a
e
n
n
g
c
e
e
,
.
and balance climate-related progress and how For more information on our approach p
C
r
o
o
m
vi
m
de
it
a
te
n
e
o
m
pp
e
o
m
rt
b
u
e
n
r
i
s
t y
t o
f o
a
r
s
t
s
h
e
e
s s
our people who work hard each day
we are managing the risks and to stakeholder engagement and to deliver for our customers, our
executive performance against
Board and strategic With customer interests at the o co p m po p r e tu ti n n i g ti e fa s c a t s o r w s. e O ll u as r a b c a t l i a o n n c s i n n g e ed k se e e y a p r a e g a e s s o 6 f 9 B – o 7 a 1 rd o c f o th n e si deration, strategic priorities, risk management c u u s s t t o o s m e e rv rs e a th n e d i r c f o i m na m nc u i n a i l t n ie e s e f d o s r , t a r n u d st o in u g r
priorities centre of CBA’s purpose and to align with our purpose – building a 2023 Annual Report. and living our values – and supports shareholders for their ongoing support.
strategy, the Board continued to the determination of collective and
brighter future for all – and support
Globally we are facing a period of actively monitor how the Bank is individual remuneration consequences.
an inclusive transition.
economic uncertainty, with many handling complaints as well as its
Australians feeling the strain of progress in improving customers’ For further information on the Bank’s F
ex
o
e
r
c
f
u
u
t
r
i
t
v
h
e
e
r
r
e
i
m
nf
u
o
n
rm
er
a
a
t
t
i
i
o
o
n
n ,
o
s
n
e
t
e
h
p
e
a
B
g
a
e
n
s
k ’s
cost of living pressures and rising experiences. Focus areas included climate strategy, see pages 22–23.
88–116 of the 2023 Annual Report. Paul O’Malley
Chair
M ore information on the Bank’s approach to corporate governance is available on pages 68–73 of the 2023 Annual Report.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
52 53
Board of Directors Executive Leadership Team
Paul O’Malley Matt Comyn Genevieve Bell AO David Cohen Alan Docherty Andrew Hinchliff
Chair and Independent Managing Director and Chief Independent Non‑Executive Director Deputy Chief Executive Officer Group Executive, Financial Services Group Executive, Institutional
Non‑Executive Director Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Banking and Markets
Board Committees: Board Committees: Nil Board Committees:
Sian Lewis Monique Macleod Carmel Mulhern
Lyn Cobley Julie Galbo Peter Harmer Group Executive, Human Resources Group Executive, Marketing and Group General Counsel and Group
Corporate Affairs Executive, Legal & Group Secretariat
Independent Non‑Executive Director Independent Non‑Executive Director Independent Non‑Executive Director
Board Committees: Nil Board Committees: Board Committees:
Gavin Munroe Vittoria Shortt Angus Sullivan
Group Chief Information Officer Chief Executive and Managing Group Executive,
Director, ASB Bank Ltd Retail Banking Services
Simon Moutter Mary Padbury Anne Templeman‑Jones
Independent Non‑Executive Director Independent Non‑Executive Director Independent Non‑Executive Director
Board Committees: Board Committees: Board Committees:
Committees Sinead Taylor Mike Vacy‑Lyle Nigel Williams
Nominations Audit Risk & Compliance People & Remuneration Chief Operations Officer Group Executive, Group Chief Risk Officer
Committee Chair Business Banking
Rob Whitfield AM
Independent Non‑Executive Director
Catherine Livingstone retired as Chairman and a Non-Executive Director on 10 August 2022.
Board Committees: Shirish Apte retired as a Non-Executive Director on 12 October 2022. Carmel Mulhern retired as Group Executive Legal & Group Secretariat effective 31 August 2023.
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK
OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
54 55
Five-year financial summary Shareholder information
Registered office Share Registry CBA Investor Relations
30 Jun 2023 30 Jun 2022 1 30 Jun 2021 2 30 Jun 2020 30 Jun 2019
$M $M $M $M $M
Commonwealth Bank Place South Link Market Services Limited Telephone: +61 2 9118 7113
Net interest income 23,056 19,473 19,302 19,015 18,224
Level 1, 11 Harbour Street Level 12, 680 George Street Email: CBAInvestorRelations@cba.com.au
Other operating income 4,181 5,216 4,646 4,746 5,355
Sydney NSW 2000 Sydney NSW 2000 commbank.com.au/investors
Total operating income 27,237 24,689 23,948 23,761 23,579
Telephone: +61 2 9378 2000 Mail: Link Market Services Limited
Operating expenses (11,858) (11,428) (11,151) (10,996) (10,891)
Facsimile: +61 2 9118 7192 Locked Bag A14 All other enquiries
Loan impairment (expense)/benefit (1,108) 357 (554) (2,518) (1,201)
commbank.com.au Sydney South NSW 1235
Net profit before tax 14,271 13,618 12,243 10,247 11,487 commbank.com.au/contactus
Telephone: +61 1800 022 440
Income tax expense (4,107) (4,023) (3,590) (3,022) (3,301)
International locations Email: cba@linkmarketservices.com.au
Non-controlling interests – – – – (12)
linkmarketservices.com.au
Net profit after tax from continuing operations commbank.com.au/internationallocations
10,164 9,595 8,653 7,225 8,174
(“cash basis”)
Net profit after tax from discontinued operations 18 113 148 182 527
Net profit after tax (“cash basis”) 10,182 9,708 8,801 7,407 8,701
Treasury shares valuation adjustment – – – – 6 Financial calendar
Hedging and IFRS volatility (8) 108 7 93 (79)
(Loss)/gain on disposal of entities net of transaction costs (84) 955 1,373 2,092 (61)
Bankwest non-cash items – – – – (1)
Net profit after income tax attributable to equity holders 2023 Annual General Meeting 11 October 2023
of the Bank (“statutory basis”) 10,090 10,771 10,181 9,592 8,566
Half year results and interim dividend announcement date 14 February 2024
Contributions to profit (after tax)
Retail Banking Services 5,158 4,913 4,693 4,029 4,043 Interim dividend payment date 28 March 2024 1
Business Banking 3,973 3,010 2,836 2,570 2,765
Full year results and final dividend announcement date 14 August 2024
Institutional Banking and Markets 1,031 1,058 933 635 1,090
New Zealand 1,356 1,265 1,161 809 1,059 Final dividend payment date 27 September 2024 2
Corporate Centre and Other (1,354) (651) (970) (818) (783)
2024 Annual General Meeting 16 October 2024
Net profit after tax from continuing operations
(“cash basis”) 10,164 9,595 8,653 7,225 8,174
Balance Sheet Dates may be altered should circumstances require. Visit CBA’s Investor Centre at commbank.com.au/financialcalendar
for latest dates.
Loans and other receivables 926,082 878,854 811,356 772,980 756,553
Total assets 1,252,845 1,215,260 1,091,975 1,015,484 977,896
1 On or around.
Deposits and other public borrowings 864,995 857,586 766,381 703,432 637,420 2 On or around.
Total liabilities 1,180,840 1,142,422 1,013,287 943,576 908,280
Shareholders’ Equity 72,005 72,838 78,688 71,908 69,616
Net tangible assets (including discontinued operations) 64,607 65,899 71,041 64,307 59,547
Risk weighted assets – Basel III (APRA) 467,992 497,892 450,680 454,948 452,762
2023 Annual General Meeting
Average interest earning assets 1,111,254 1,026,910 929,846 897,409 871,418
Average interest bearing liabilities 918,666 841,695 776,967 771,982 761,115
Assets (on Balance Sheet) – Australia 1,044,823 1,012,494 926,909 856,651 826,045
Assets (on Balance Sheet) – New Zealand 118,192 112,433 110,104 103,523 99,661
This year’s AGM will be held at the 9:30am
Assets (on Balance Sheet) – Other 89,830 90,333 54,962 55,310 52,190 (Sydney time)
International Convention Centre Sydney.
Other information Wednesday 11 October 2023
Full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations 49,454 48,906 44,019 41,778 41,458 A copy of the Notice of Meeting can be
Full-time equivalent employees including discontinued viewed and downloaded at the following link:
49,454 48,906 45,833 43,585 45,165
operations
commbank.com.au/agm
Branches/services centres (Australia) 741 807 875 967 1,014
Agencies (Australia) 3,491 3,526 3,535 3,547 3,560
ATMs 1,956 2,095 2,492 3,542 3,963
EFTPOS terminals 206,188 189,977 203,938 190,118 217,608
1 Comparative information for 2022 and 2021 has been revised to reflect the change in presentation detailed in Note 1.1 of the 2023 Annual Report.
2 Comparative information for 2022 and 2021 has been revised to reflect the change in presentation detailed in Note 1.1 of the 2023 Annual Report.
Detailed information on the Bank’s 2023 financial results is on pages 119–289 of the 2023 Annual Report.
Design Communication and Production by ARMSTRONG
Armstrong.Studio
2023
ANNUAL
REVIEW
COMMONWEALTH
BANK